<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Memcached Cache Adapter</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../_static/rtd_custom.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="memcached-cache-adapter">
<span id="memcached-adapter"></span><span id="index-0"></span><h1>Memcached Cache Adapter</h1>
<p>This adapter stores the values in-memory using one (or more) <a class="reference external" href="https://memcached.org/">Memcached server</a><span class="link-target"> [https://memcached.org/]</span>
instances. Unlike the <a class="reference internal" href="apcu_adapter.xhtml#apcu-adapter"><span class="std std-ref">APCu adapter</span></a>, and similarly to the
<a class="reference internal" href="redis_adapter.xhtml#redis-adapter"><span class="std std-ref">Redis adapter</span></a>, it is not limited to the current server’s
shared memory; you can store contents independent of your PHP environment.
The ability to utilize a cluster of servers to provide redundancy and/or fail-over
is also available.</p>
<div class="admonition caution">
<p class="admonition-title">Caution</p>
<p><strong>Requirements:</strong> The <a class="reference external" href="https://www.php.net/manual/en/book.memcached.php">Memcached PHP extension</a><span class="link-target"> [https://www.php.net/manual/en/book.memcached.php]</span> as well as a <a class="reference external" href="https://memcached.org/">Memcached server</a><span class="link-target"> [https://memcached.org/]</span>
must be installed, active, and running to use this adapter. Version <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">2.2</span></code> or
greater of the <a class="reference external" href="https://www.php.net/manual/en/book.memcached.php">Memcached PHP extension</a><span class="link-target"> [https://www.php.net/manual/en/book.memcached.php]</span> is required for this adapter.</p>
</div>
<p>This adapter expects a <a class="reference external" href="https://www.php.net/manual/en/class.memcached.php">Memcached</a><span class="link-target"> [https://www.php.net/manual/en/class.memcached.php]</span> instance to be passed as the first
parameter. A namespace and default cache lifetime can optionally be passed as
the second and third parameters:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="k">use</span> <span class="nx">Symfony\Component\Cache\Adapter\MemcachedAdapter</span><span class="p">;</span>

<span class="nv">$cache</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">MemcachedAdapter</span><span class="p">(</span>
    <span class="c1">// the client object that sets options and adds the server instance(s)</span>
    <span class="nx">\Memcached</span> <span class="nv">$client</span><span class="p">,</span>

    <span class="c1">// a string prefixed to the keys of the items stored in this cache</span>
    <span class="nv">$namespace</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="s1">&#39;&#39;</span><span class="p">,</span>

    <span class="c1">// the default lifetime (in seconds) for cache items that do not define their</span>
    <span class="c1">// own lifetime, with a value 0 causing items to be stored indefinitely (i.e.</span>
    <span class="c1">// until MemcachedAdapter::clear() is invoked or the server(s) are restarted)</span>
    <span class="nv">$defaultLifetime</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="mi">0</span>
<span class="p">);</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="configure-the-connection">
<h2>Configure the Connection</h2>
<p>The <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/symfony/symfony/blob/master/src/Symfony/Component/Cache/Adapter/MemcachedAdapter.php" title="Symfony\Component\Cache\Adapter\MemcachedAdapter::createConnection()"><span class="pre">createConnection()</span></a><span class="link-target"> <span class="pre">[https://github.com/symfony/symfony/blob/master/src/Symfony/Component/Cache/Adapter/MemcachedAdapter.php]</span></span></code>
helper method allows creating and configuring a <a class="reference external" href="https://www.php.net/manual/en/class.memcached.php">Memcached</a><span class="link-target"> [https://www.php.net/manual/en/class.memcached.php]</span> class instance using a
<a class="reference external" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_source_name">Data Source Name (DSN)</a><span class="link-target"> [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_source_name]</span> or an array of DSNs:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="k">use</span> <span class="nx">Symfony\Component\Cache\Adapter\MemcachedAdapter</span><span class="p">;</span>

<span class="c1">// pass a single DSN string to register a single server with the client</span>
<span class="nv">$client</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="nx">MemcachedAdapter</span><span class="o">::</span><span class="na">createConnection</span><span class="p">(</span>
    <span class="s1">&#39;memcached://localhost&#39;</span>
    <span class="c1">// the DSN can include config options (pass them as a query string):</span>
    <span class="c1">// &#39;memcached://localhost:11222?retry_timeout=10&#39;</span>
    <span class="c1">// &#39;memcached://localhost:11222?socket_recv_size=1&amp;socket_send_size=2&#39;</span>
<span class="p">);</span>

<span class="c1">// pass an array of DSN strings to register multiple servers with the client</span>
<span class="nv">$client</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="nx">MemcachedAdapter</span><span class="o">::</span><span class="na">createConnection</span><span class="p">([</span>
    <span class="s1">&#39;memcached://10.0.0.100&#39;</span><span class="p">,</span>
    <span class="s1">&#39;memcached://10.0.0.101&#39;</span><span class="p">,</span>
    <span class="s1">&#39;memcached://10.0.0.102&#39;</span><span class="p">,</span>
    <span class="c1">// etc...</span>
<span class="p">]);</span>

<span class="c1">// a single DSN can define multiple servers using the following syntax:</span>
<span class="c1">// host[hostname-or-IP:port] (where port is optional). Sockets must include a trailing &#39;:&#39;</span>
<span class="nv">$client</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="nx">MemcachedAdapter</span><span class="o">::</span><span class="na">createConnection</span><span class="p">(</span>
    <span class="s1">&#39;memcached:?host[localhost]&amp;host[localhost:12345]&amp;host[/some/memcached.sock:]=3&#39;</span>
<span class="p">);</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>The <a class="reference external" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_source_name">Data Source Name (DSN)</a><span class="link-target"> [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_source_name]</span> for this adapter must use the following format:</p>
<div class="highlight-text notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre>1</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span>memcached://[user:pass@][ip|host|socket[:port]][?weight=int]
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
<p>The DSN must include a IP/host (and an optional port) or a socket path, an
optional username and password (for SASL authentication; it requires that the
memcached extension was compiled with <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">--enable-memcached-sasl</span></code>) and an
optional weight (for prioritizing servers in a cluster; its value is an integer
between <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">0</span></code> and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">100</span></code> which defaults to <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">null</span></code>; a higher value means more
priority).</p>
<p>Below are common examples of valid DSNs showing a combination of available values:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="k">use</span> <span class="nx">Symfony\Component\Cache\Adapter\MemcachedAdapter</span><span class="p">;</span>

<span class="nv">$client</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="nx">MemcachedAdapter</span><span class="o">::</span><span class="na">createConnection</span><span class="p">([</span>
    <span class="c1">// hostname + port</span>
    <span class="s1">&#39;memcached://my.server.com:11211&#39;</span>

    <span class="c1">// hostname without port + SASL username and password</span>
    <span class="s1">&#39;memcached://rmf:abcdef@localhost&#39;</span>

    <span class="c1">// IP address instead of hostname + weight</span>
    <span class="s1">&#39;memcached://127.0.0.1?weight=50&#39;</span>

    <span class="c1">// socket instead of hostname/IP + SASL username and password</span>
    <span class="s1">&#39;memcached://janesmith:mypassword@/var/run/memcached.sock&#39;</span>

    <span class="c1">// socket instead of hostname/IP + weight</span>
    <span class="s1">&#39;memcached:///var/run/memcached.sock?weight=20&#39;</span>
<span class="p">]);</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="configure-the-options">
<h2>Configure the Options</h2>
<p>The <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/symfony/symfony/blob/master/src/Symfony/Component/Cache/Adapter/MemcachedAdapter.php" title="Symfony\Component\Cache\Adapter\MemcachedAdapter::createConnection()"><span class="pre">createConnection()</span></a><span class="link-target"> <span class="pre">[https://github.com/symfony/symfony/blob/master/src/Symfony/Component/Cache/Adapter/MemcachedAdapter.php]</span></span></code>
helper method also accepts an array of options as its second argument. The
expected format is an associative array of <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">key</span> <span class="pre">=&gt;</span> <span class="pre">value</span></code> pairs representing
option names and their respective values:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="k">use</span> <span class="nx">Symfony\Component\Cache\Adapter\MemcachedAdapter</span><span class="p">;</span>

<span class="nv">$client</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="nx">MemcachedAdapter</span><span class="o">::</span><span class="na">createConnection</span><span class="p">(</span>
    <span class="c1">// a DSN string or an array of DSN strings</span>
    <span class="p">[],</span>

    <span class="c1">// associative array of configuration options</span>
    <span class="p">[</span>
        <span class="s1">&#39;compression&#39;</span> <span class="o">=&gt;</span> <span class="k">true</span><span class="p">,</span>
        <span class="s1">&#39;libketama_compatible&#39;</span> <span class="o">=&gt;</span> <span class="k">true</span><span class="p">,</span>
        <span class="s1">&#39;serializer&#39;</span> <span class="o">=&gt;</span> <span class="s1">&#39;igbinary&#39;</span><span class="p">,</span>
    <span class="p">]</span>
<span class="p">);</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="available-options">
<h3>Available Options</h3>
<dl>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">auto_eject_hosts</span></code> (type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bool</span></code>, default: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">false</span></code>)</dt>
<dd><p>Enables or disables a constant, automatic, re-balancing of the cluster by
auto-ejecting hosts that have exceeded the configured <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">server_failure_limit</span></code>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">buffer_writes</span></code> (type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bool</span></code>, default: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">false</span></code>)</dt>
<dd><p>Enables or disables buffered input/output operations, causing storage
commands to buffer instead of being immediately sent to the remote
server(s). Any action that retrieves data, quits the connection, or closes
down the connection will cause the buffer to be committed.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">compression</span></code> (type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bool</span></code>, default: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">true</span></code>)</dt>
<dd><p>Enables or disables payload compression, where item values longer than 100
bytes are compressed during storage and decompressed during retrieval.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">compression_type</span></code> (type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">string</span></code>)</dt>
<dd><p>Specifies the compression method used on value payloads. when the
<strong>compression</strong> option is enabled.</p>
<p>Valid option values include <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">fastlz</span></code> and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">zlib</span></code>, with a default value
that <em>varies based on flags used at compilation</em>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">connect_timeout</span></code> (type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">int</span></code>, default: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">1000</span></code>)</dt>
<dd><p>Specifies the timeout (in milliseconds) of socket connection operations when
the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">no_block</span></code> option is enabled.</p>
<p>Valid option values include <em>any positive integer</em>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">distribution</span></code> (type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">string</span></code>, default: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">consistent</span></code>)</dt>
<dd><p>Specifies the item key distribution method among the servers. Consistent
hashing delivers better distribution and allows servers to be added to the
cluster with minimal cache losses.</p>
<p>Valid option values include <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">modula</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">consistent</span></code>, and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">virtual_bucket</span></code>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">hash</span></code> (type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">string</span></code>, default: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">md5</span></code>)</dt>
<dd><p>Specifies the hashing algorithm used for item keys. Each hash algorithm has
its advantages and its disadvantages. The default is suggested for compatibility
with other clients.</p>
<p>Valid option values include <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">default</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">md5</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">crc</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">fnv1_64</span></code>,
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">fnv1a_64</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">fnv1_32</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">fnv1a_32</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">hsieh</span></code>, and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">murmur</span></code>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">libketama_compatible</span></code> (type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bool</span></code>, default: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">true</span></code>)</dt>
<dd><p>Enables or disables “libketama” compatible behavior, enabling other
libketama-based clients to access the keys stored by client instance
transparently (like Python and Ruby). Enabling this option sets the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">hash</span></code>
option to <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">md5</span></code> and the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">distribution</span></code> option to <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">consistent</span></code>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">no_block</span></code> (type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bool</span></code>, default: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">true</span></code>)</dt>
<dd><p>Enables or disables asynchronous input and output operations. This is the
fastest transport option available for storage functions.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">number_of_replicas</span></code> (type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">int</span></code>, default: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">0</span></code>)</dt>
<dd><p>Specifies the number of replicas that should be stored for each item (on
different servers). This does not dedicate certain memcached servers to
store the replicas in, but instead stores the replicas together with all of
the other objects (on the “n” next servers registered).</p>
<p>Valid option values include <em>any positive integer</em>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">prefix_key</span></code> (type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">string</span></code>, default: an empty string)</dt>
<dd><p>Specifies a “domain” (or “namespace”) prepended to your keys. It cannot be
longer than 128 characters and reduces the maximum key size.</p>
<p>Valid option values include <em>any alphanumeric string</em>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">poll_timeout</span></code> (type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">int</span></code>, default: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">1000</span></code>)</dt>
<dd><p>Specifies the amount of time (in seconds) before timing out during a socket
polling operation.</p>
<p>Valid option values include <em>any positive integer</em>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">randomize_replica_read</span></code> (type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bool</span></code>, type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">false</span></code>)</dt>
<dd><p>Enables or disables randomization of the replica reads starting point.
Normally the read is done from primary server and in case of a miss the read
is done from “primary+1”, then “primary+2”, all the way to “n” replicas.
This option sets the replica reads as randomized between all available
servers; it allows distributing read load to multiple servers with the
expense of more write traffic.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">recv_timeout</span></code> (type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">int</span></code>, default: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">0</span></code>)</dt>
<dd><p>Specifies the amount of time (in microseconds) before timing out during an outgoing socket (read) operation.
When the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">no_block</span></code> option isn’t enabled, this will allow you to still have timeouts on the reading of data.</p>
<p>Valid option values include <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">0</span></code> or <em>any positive integer</em>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">retry_timeout</span></code> (type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">int</span></code>, default: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">0</span></code>)</dt>
<dd><p>Specifies the amount of time (in seconds) before timing out and retrying a
connection attempt.</p>
<p>Valid option values include <em>any positive integer</em>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">send_timeout</span></code> (type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">int</span></code>, default: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">0</span></code>)</dt>
<dd><p>Specifies the amount of time (in microseconds) before timing out during an
incoming socket (send) operation. When the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">no_block</span></code> option isn’t enabled,
this will allow you to still have timeouts on the sending of data.</p>
<p>Valid option values include <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">0</span></code> or <em>any positive integer</em>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">serializer</span></code> (type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">string</span></code>, default: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">php</span></code>)</dt>
<dd><p>Specifies the serializer to use for serializing non-scalar values. The
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">igbinary</span></code> options requires the igbinary PHP extension to be enabled, as
well as the memcached extension to have been compiled with support for it.</p>
<p>Valid option values include <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">php</span></code> and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">igbinary</span></code>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">server_failure_limit</span></code> (type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">int</span></code>, default: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">0</span></code>)</dt>
<dd><p>Specifies the failure limit for server connection attempts before marking
the server as “dead”. The server will remain in the server pool unless
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">auto_eject_hosts</span></code> is enabled.</p>
<p>Valid option values include <em>any positive integer</em>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">socket_recv_size</span></code> (type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">int</span></code>)</dt>
<dd><p>Specified the maximum buffer size (in bytes) in the context of incoming
(receive) socket connection data.</p>
<p>Valid option values include <em>any positive integer</em>, with a default value
that <em>varies by platform and kernel configuration</em>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">socket_send_size</span></code> (type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">int</span></code>)</dt>
<dd><p>Specified the maximum buffer size (in bytes) in the context of outgoing (send)
socket connection data.</p>
<p>Valid option values include <em>any positive integer</em>, with a default value
that <em>varies by platform and kernel configuration</em>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">tcp_keepalive</span></code> (type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bool</span></code>, default: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">false</span></code>)</dt>
<dd><p>Enables or disables the “<a class="reference external" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Keepalive">keep-alive</a><span class="link-target"> [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Keepalive]</span>” <a class="reference external" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transmission_Control_Protocol">Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)</a><span class="link-target"> [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transmission_Control_Protocol]</span>
feature, which is a feature that helps to determine whether the other end
has stopped responding by sending probes to the network peer after an idle
period and closing or persisting the socket based on the response (or lack thereof).</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">tcp_nodelay</span></code> (type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bool</span></code>, default: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">false</span></code>)</dt>
<dd><p>Enables or disables the “<a class="reference external" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TCP_NODELAY">no-delay</a><span class="link-target"> [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TCP_NODELAY]</span>” (Nagle’s algorithm) <a class="reference external" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transmission_Control_Protocol">Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)</a><span class="link-target"> [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transmission_Control_Protocol]</span>
algorithm, which is a mechanism intended to improve the efficiency of
networks by reducing the overhead of TCP headers by combining a number of
small outgoing messages and sending them all at once.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">use_udp</span></code> (type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bool</span></code>, default: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">false</span></code>)</dt>
<dd><p>Enables or disables the use of <a class="reference external" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_Datagram_Protocol">User Datagram Protocol (UDP)</a><span class="link-target"> [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_Datagram_Protocol]</span> mode (instead
of <a class="reference external" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transmission_Control_Protocol">Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)</a><span class="link-target"> [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transmission_Control_Protocol]</span> mode), where all operations are
executed in a “fire-and-forget” manner; no attempt to ensure the operation
has been received or acted on will be made once the client has executed it.</p>
<div class="admonition caution">
<p class="admonition-title">Caution</p>
<p>Not all library operations are tested in this mode. Mixed TCP and UDP
servers are not allowed.</p>
</div>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">verify_key</span></code> (type: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bool</span></code>, default: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">false</span></code>)</dt>
<dd><p>Enables or disables testing and verifying of all keys used to ensure they
are valid and fit within the design of the protocol being used.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p>Reference the <a class="reference external" href="https://www.php.net/manual/en/class.memcached.php">Memcached</a><span class="link-target"> [https://www.php.net/manual/en/class.memcached.php]</span> extension’s <a class="reference external" href="https://www.php.net/manual/en/memcached.constants.php">predefined constants</a><span class="link-target"> [https://www.php.net/manual/en/memcached.constants.php]</span> documentation
for additional information about the available options.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>