<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Diversity Initiative Governance</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../_static/rtd_custom.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="diversity-initiative-governance">
<h1>Diversity Initiative Governance</h1>
<div class="section" id="membership">
<h2>Membership</h2>
<p>Membership of Symfony’s Diversity Initiative is open to any member of the
Symfony community; to avoid the risk of elitism or meritocracy, no requirement
is needed to be involved. All members, at any time, are invited to put forward
ideas and suggestions as a proposal for an actionable item.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="guidance">
<h2>Guidance</h2>
<p>The project leader, Fabien Potencier, is responsible for publicly appointing
five (5) members of the initiative to provide guidance and drive it forward,
but also retains the right to revoke any of the appointed members at any time.
This guidance team should:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Be committed to the initiative’s cause and have joined because they want to
help the initiative to deliver its purpose most effectively for the
community’s benefit.</p></li>
<li><p>Recognize that meeting the initiative’s purpose is an ongoing effort.</p></li>
<li><p>Be committed to good governance and want to contribute to the initiative’s
continued improvement.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>The current guidance team is composed of the following people (in alphabetical
order):</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><strong>Lukas Kahwe Smith</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/lsmith77/">lsmith77</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/lsmith77/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Michelle Sanver</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/michellesanver/">michellesanver</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/michellesanver/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Nicolas Grekas</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/nicolas-grekas/">nicolas-grekas</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/nicolas-grekas/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Timo Bakx</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/TimoBakx/">TimoBakx</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/TimoBakx/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Zan Baldwin</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/zanbaldwin/">zanbaldwin</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/zanbaldwin/]</span>).</p></li>
</ul>
<div class="section" id="veto">
<h3>Veto</h3>
<p>The project leader (Fabien Potencier) will have the right to veto any actionable
item, regardless of the vote of the initiative’s guidance team. The project
leader may, at their discretion, also appoint other people from among the
initiative’s guidance team to also have the right to veto - in such a case these
people are expected to use appropriate judgment to know when to use a “no” vote
or a veto. Any single veto will reject an actionable item.</p>
<p>The purpose of having members with the right to veto is to prevent a “people’s
majority” from overruling the core interests of the Symfony project. This will
encourage communication between proposing members, the initiative’s guidance
team and the Core Team to create realistic proposals, and in return any veto
will come with a full explanation (not just a justification).</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="advice-process">
<h3>Advice Process</h3>
<p>When a proposal on an actionable item is ready to be decided on, insight from
the community (advice, general consensus, or non-binding poll) should be
requested from the wider community - this will aim to include both those who
will be meaningfully affected and those with meaningful expertise in the matter
at hand.
This feedback will enable the guidance team to have the confidence to vote for
the best possible decision according to the information they have available,
knowing that the responsibility they accept for said vote is justified.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="voting">
<h3>Voting</h3>
<p>The guidance team have the right to vote on proposals for actionable items.
The quorum of “yes” or “no” votes required for a decision to be considered valid
is at least 75% of active, appointed members of the guidance team - to abstain
from voting means that vote will not be counted towards the quorum.
For an actionable item to pass, approval from greater than 50% of the voting
guidance team members is required. Use or management of finances/donations
require at least a two-thirds majority to pass.</p>
<p>For transparency and ease-of-understanding, this means only the following
combinations of votes will result in an actionable item passing:</p>
<table class="docutils">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 22%" />
<col style="width: 39%" />
<col style="width: 39%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="row-odd"><th class="head"><p>For</p></th>
<th class="head"><p>Against</p></th>
<th class="head"><p>Abstain</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="row-even"><td><p>5</p></td>
<td><p>0</p></td>
<td><p>0</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td><p>4</p></td>
<td><p>1</p></td>
<td><p>0</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td><p>3</p></td>
<td><p>2</p></td>
<td><p>0</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-odd"><td><p>4</p></td>
<td><p>0</p></td>
<td><p>1</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="row-even"><td><p>3</p></td>
<td><p>1</p></td>
<td><p>1</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="guidance-principles">
<h2>Guidance Principles</h2>
<div class="section" id="purpose">
<h3>Purpose</h3>
<p>The initiative should be led by an effective guidance team that provides
strategic guidance in line with the initiative’s aims and values, including a
shared understanding with fellow initiative members to ensure that these are
being delivered effectively and sustainably.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="integrity">
<h3>Integrity</h3>
<p>The guidance team should act with integrity: adopting values which help achieve
the initiative’s purposes, even where difficult or unpopular decisions are
required. Guidance team members should undertake their duties, aware of the
importance of confidence and trust in the initiative from the wider community,
and ultimately acknowledges shared responsibility for the reputation of the
Symfony project like the Core Team.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="decision-making-effectiveness">
<h3>Decision-making Effectiveness</h3>
<p>Guidance members should work as an effective team, using the appropriate balance
of skills, experience, backgrounds and knowledge to make sure its
decision-making processes are informed and equitable. Risk assessment and
management systems should be set up and monitored.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="openness-and-accountability">
<h3>Openness and Accountability</h3>
<p>The behavior and conduct of the initiative’s guidance team sets the tone for
the rest of the community. The guidance team should lead by example to create a
culture that enables members to feel it is safe to suggest, question and
challenge - rather than avoid - difficult ideas and topics. The team should
guide the initiative in being transparent, accountable and open.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="adaptability">
<h3>Adaptability</h3>
<p>The initiative should establish processes that do not require any one person to
hold specific positions while being adaptable to accommodate unforeseen needs of
the community, especially as membership and involvement grows over time (changes
to guidance team member appointment will have to be approved by the current
system, which is Fabien Potencier).</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>