<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>CARE Team</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../_static/rtd_custom.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="care-team">
<h1>CARE Team</h1>
<div class="section" id="our-pledge">
<h2>Our Pledge</h2>
<p>In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, the “Code of
Conduct Active Response Ensurers”, or CARE team, pledge to ensure that the
spirit of the <a class="reference internal" href="index.xhtml"><span class="doc">Code of Conduct</span></a>
is respected. Our main priority is to ensure the safety of our community members.
The second goal is to help educate the community as a whole to be aware of the
Code of Conduct and how to help implement its spirit throughout the community.
In case these goals conflict, we will prioritize safety of community members
over all other goals.</p>
<p>If you think there is or has been a violation to the Code of Conduct please contact
the CARE team or if you prefer contact only individual members of the CARE team.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="members">
<h2>Members</h2>
<p>Here are all the members of the CARE team (in alphabetic order). You can contact
any of them directly using the contact details below or you can also contact all
of them at once by emailing <strong>care&#64;symfony.com</strong>:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><strong>Emilie Lorenzo</strong></p>
<ul>
<li><p><em>E-mail</em>: emilie.lorenzo [at] symfony.com</p></li>
<li><p><em>Twitter</em>: <a class="reference external" href="https://twitter.com/EmilieLorenzo">&#64;EmilieLorenzo</a><span class="link-target"> [https://twitter.com/EmilieLorenzo]</span></p></li>
<li><p><em>SymfonyConnect</em>: <a class="reference external" href="https://connect.symfony.com/profile/emilielorenzo">emilielorenzo</a><span class="link-target"> [https://connect.symfony.com/profile/emilielorenzo]</span></p></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p><strong>Tobias Nyholm</strong></p>
<ul>
<li><p><em>E-mail</em>: tobias.nyholm [at] gmail.com</p></li>
<li><p><em>Twitter</em>: <a class="reference external" href="https://twitter.com/tobiasnyholm">&#64;tobiasnyholm</a><span class="link-target"> [https://twitter.com/tobiasnyholm]</span></p></li>
<li><p><em>SymfonyConnect</em>: <a class="reference external" href="https://connect.symfony.com/profile/tobias">tobias</a><span class="link-target"> [https://connect.symfony.com/profile/tobias]</span></p></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="about-the-care-team">
<h2>About the CARE Team</h2>
<p>The <a class="reference internal" href="../code/core_team.xhtml"><span class="doc">Symfony project leader</span></a> appoints the CARE
team with candidates they see fit. The CARE team will consist of at least
3 people. The team should be representing as many demographics as possible,
ideally from different employers.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="care-team-transparency-reports">
<h2>CARE Team Transparency Reports</h2>
<p>The CARE team publishes a transparency report at the end of each year:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://symfony.com/blog/symfony-code-of-conduct-transparency-report-2018">Symfony Code of Conduct Transparency Report 2018</a><span class="link-target"> [https://symfony.com/blog/symfony-code-of-conduct-transparency-report-2018]</span>.</p></li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>