<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Reporting Guidelines</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../_static/rtd_custom.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="reporting-guidelines">
<h1>Reporting Guidelines</h1>
<p>If you believe someone is violating the Code of Conduct we ask that you report
it to the <a class="reference internal" href="care_team.xhtml"><span class="doc">CARE team</span></a>
by emailing, Twitter, in person or any way you see fit.</p>
<p><strong>All reports will be kept confidential.</strong> The privacy of everyone included in
the report is of our highest concern. Second to privacy there is transparency.
After every report we will determine if a public statement should be made. If
that’s the case, the identities of all victims, reporters, and the accused will
remain confidential unless those individuals instruct us otherwise. The details
of the incident may also be generalized.</p>
<p>If you believe anyone is in physical danger or doing something that is against
the law, please notify appropriate emergency services first by calling the relevant
local authorities. If you are unsure what service or agency is appropriate to
contact, include this in your report and we will attempt to notify them.</p>
<p>In your report please include:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Your contact info for follow-up contact.</p></li>
<li><p>Names (legal, nicknames, or pseudonyms) of any individuals involved.</p></li>
<li><p>If there were other witnesses besides you, please try to include them as well.</p></li>
<li><p>When and where the incident occurred. Please be as specific as possible.</p></li>
<li><p>Your description of what occurred.</p></li>
<li><p>If there is a publicly available record (e.g. a mailing list archive or a
public IRC or Slack log), please include a link and a screenshot.</p></li>
<li><p>If you believe this incident is ongoing.</p></li>
<li><p>Any other information you believe we should have.</p></li>
</ul>
<div class="section" id="what-happens-after-you-file-a-report">
<h2>What happens after you file a report?</h2>
<p>You will receive a reply from the <a class="reference internal" href="care_team.xhtml"><span class="doc">CARE team</span></a>
acknowledging receipt as soon as possible, but within 24 hours.</p>
<p>The team member receiving the report will immediately contact all or some other
CARE team members to review the incident and determine:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>What happened.</p></li>
<li><p>Whether this event constitutes a Code of Conduct violation.</p></li>
<li><p>What kind of response is appropriate.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>If this is determined to be an ongoing incident or a threat to physical safety,
the team’s immediate priority will be to protect everyone involved. This means
we may delay an “official” response until we believe that the situation has ended
and that everyone is physically safe.</p>
<p>Once the team has a complete account of the events, they will make a decision as
to how to respond. Responses may include:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Nothing (if we determine no Code of Conduct violation occurred).</p></li>
<li><p>A private reprimand from the Code of Conduct response team to the individual(s)
involved.</p></li>
<li><p>An imposed vacation (i.e. asking someone to “take a week off” from a mailing
list or Slack).</p></li>
<li><p>A permanent or temporary ban from some or all Symfony conference/community
spaces (events, meetings, mailing lists, IRC, Slack, etc.)</p></li>
<li><p>A request to engage in mediation and/or an accountability plan.</p></li>
<li><p>On a case by case basis, other actions may be possible but will usually be
coordinated with the core team and the Symfony company.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>We’ll respond within one week to the person who filed the report with either a
resolution or an explanation of why the situation is not yet resolved.</p>
<p>Once we’ve determined our final actions, we’ll contact the original reporter to
let them know what action (if any) we’ll be taking. We’ll take into account feedback
from the reporter on the appropriateness of our response, but our response will be
determined by what will be best for community safety.</p>
<p>The CARE team keeps a private record of all incidents. By default, all reports
are shared with the entire CARE team unless the reporter specifically asks
to exclude specific CARE team members, in which case these CARE team
members will not be included in any communication on the incidents as well as records
created related to the incidents.</p>
<p>CARE team members are expected to inform the CARE team and the reporters
in case of conflicts on interest and recuse themselves if this is deemed a problem.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="appealing-the-response">
<h2>Appealing the response</h2>
<p>Only permanent resolutions (such as bans) may be appealed. To appeal a decision
of the working group, contact the <a class="reference internal" href="care_team.xhtml"><span class="doc">CARE team</span></a>
with your appeal and they will review the case.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="document-origin">
<h2>Document origin</h2>
<p>Reporting Guidelines derived from those of the <a class="reference external" href="http://stumptownsyndicate.org/code-of-conduct/reporting-guidelines/">Stumptown Syndicate</a><span class="link-target"> [http://stumptownsyndicate.org/code-of-conduct/reporting-guidelines/]</span> and the
<a class="reference external" href="https://www.djangoproject.com/conduct/reporting/">Django Software Foundation</a><span class="link-target"> [https://www.djangoproject.com/conduct/reporting/]</span>.</p>
<p>Adopted by <a class="reference external" href="https://symfony.com">Symfony</a><span class="link-target"> [https://symfony.com]</span> organizers on 21 February 2018.</p>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>