<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Compiling the Container</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../_static/rtd_custom.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="compiling-the-container">
<span id="index-0"></span><h1>Compiling the Container</h1>
<p>The service container can be compiled for various reasons. These reasons
include checking for any potential issues such as circular references and
making the container more efficient by resolving parameters and removing
unused services. Also, certain features - like using
<a class="reference internal" href="../../service_container/parent_services.xhtml"><span class="doc">parent services</span></a>
- require the container to be compiled.</p>
<p>It is compiled by running:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="nv">$container</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">compile</span><span class="p">();</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>The compile method uses <em>Compiler Passes</em> for the compilation. The DependencyInjection
component comes with several passes which are automatically registered for
compilation. For example the
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/symfony/symfony/blob/master/src/Symfony/Component/DependencyInjection/Compiler/CheckDefinitionValidityPass.php" title="Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\Compiler\CheckDefinitionValidityPass"><span class="pre">CheckDefinitionValidityPass</span></a><span class="link-target"> <span class="pre">[https://github.com/symfony/symfony/blob/master/src/Symfony/Component/DependencyInjection/Compiler/CheckDefinitionValidityPass.php]</span></span></code>
checks for various potential issues with the definitions that have been
set in the container. After this and several other passes that check the
container’s validity, further compiler passes are used to optimize the
configuration before it is cached. For example, private services and abstract
services are removed and aliases are resolved.</p>
<div class="section" id="managing-configuration-with-extensions">
<span id="components-dependency-injection-extension"></span><h2>Managing Configuration with Extensions</h2>
<p>As well as loading configuration directly into the container as shown in
<a class="reference internal" href="../dependency_injection.xhtml"><span class="doc">The DependencyInjection Component</span></a>, you can manage it
by registering extensions with the container. The first step in the compilation
process is to load configuration from any extension classes registered with
the container. Unlike the configuration loaded directly, they are only processed
when the container is compiled. If your application is modular then extensions
allow each module to register and manage their own service configuration.</p>
<p>The extensions must implement
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/symfony/symfony/blob/master/src/Symfony/Component/DependencyInjection/Extension/ExtensionInterface.php" title="Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\Extension\ExtensionInterface"><span class="pre">ExtensionInterface</span></a><span class="link-target"> <span class="pre">[https://github.com/symfony/symfony/blob/master/src/Symfony/Component/DependencyInjection/Extension/ExtensionInterface.php]</span></span></code>
and can be registered with the container with:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="nv">$container</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">registerExtension</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="nv">$extension</span><span class="p">);</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>The main work of the extension is done in the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">load()</span></code> method. In the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">load()</span></code>
method you can load configuration from one or more configuration files as
well as manipulate the container definitions using the methods shown in
<a class="reference internal" href="../../service_container/definitions.xhtml"><span class="doc">How to work with Service Definition Objects</span></a>.</p>
<p>The <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">load()</span></code> method is passed a fresh container to set up, which is then
merged afterwards into the container it is registered with. This allows
you to have several extensions managing container definitions independently.
The extensions do not add to the containers configuration when they are
added but are processed when the container’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">compile()</span></code> method is called.</p>
<p>A very simple extension may just load configuration files into the container:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="k">use</span> <span class="nx">Symfony\Component\Config\FileLocator</span><span class="p">;</span>
<span class="k">use</span> <span class="nx">Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\ContainerBuilder</span><span class="p">;</span>
<span class="k">use</span> <span class="nx">Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\Extension\ExtensionInterface</span><span class="p">;</span>
<span class="k">use</span> <span class="nx">Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\Loader\XmlFileLoader</span><span class="p">;</span>

<span class="k">class</span> <span class="nc">AcmeDemoExtension</span> <span class="k">implements</span> <span class="nx">ExtensionInterface</span>
<span class="p">{</span>
    <span class="k">public</span> <span class="k">function</span> <span class="nf">load</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="k">array</span> <span class="nv">$configs</span><span class="p">,</span> <span class="nx">ContainerBuilder</span> <span class="nv">$container</span><span class="p">)</span>
    <span class="p">{</span>
        <span class="nv">$loader</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">XmlFileLoader</span><span class="p">(</span>
            <span class="nv">$container</span><span class="p">,</span>
            <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">FileLocator</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="no">__DIR__</span><span class="o">.</span><span class="s1">&#39;/../Resources/config&#39;</span><span class="p">)</span>
        <span class="p">);</span>
        <span class="nv">$loader</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">load</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="s1">&#39;services.xml&#39;</span><span class="p">);</span>
    <span class="p">}</span>

    <span class="c1">// ...</span>
<span class="p">}</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>This does not gain very much compared to loading the file directly into
the overall container being built. It just allows the files to be split
up among the modules/bundles. Being able to affect the configuration
of a module from configuration files outside of the module/bundle is needed
to make a complex application configurable. This can be done by specifying
sections of config files loaded directly into the container as being for
a particular extension. These sections on the config will not be processed
directly by the container but by the relevant Extension.</p>
<p>The Extension must specify a <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">getAlias()</span></code> method to implement the interface:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="c1">// ...</span>

<span class="k">class</span> <span class="nc">AcmeDemoExtension</span> <span class="k">implements</span> <span class="nx">ExtensionInterface</span>
<span class="p">{</span>
    <span class="c1">// ...</span>

    <span class="k">public</span> <span class="k">function</span> <span class="nf">getAlias</span><span class="p">()</span>
    <span class="p">{</span>
        <span class="k">return</span> <span class="s1">&#39;acme_demo&#39;</span><span class="p">;</span>
    <span class="p">}</span>
<span class="p">}</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>For YAML configuration files specifying the alias for the extension as a
key will mean that those values are passed to the Extension’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">load()</span></code> method:</p>
<div class="highlight-yaml notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre>1
2
3
4</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="c1"># ...</span>
<span class="l l-Scalar l-Scalar-Plain">acme_demo</span><span class="p p-Indicator">:</span>
    <span class="l l-Scalar l-Scalar-Plain">foo</span><span class="p p-Indicator">:</span> <span class="l l-Scalar l-Scalar-Plain">fooValue</span>
    <span class="l l-Scalar l-Scalar-Plain">bar</span><span class="p p-Indicator">:</span> <span class="l l-Scalar l-Scalar-Plain">barValue</span>
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
<p>If this file is loaded into the configuration then the values in it are
only processed when the container is compiled at which point the Extensions
are loaded:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="k">use</span> <span class="nx">Symfony\Component\Config\FileLocator</span><span class="p">;</span>
<span class="k">use</span> <span class="nx">Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\ContainerBuilder</span><span class="p">;</span>
<span class="k">use</span> <span class="nx">Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\Loader\YamlFileLoader</span><span class="p">;</span>

<span class="nv">$containerBuilder</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">ContainerBuilder</span><span class="p">();</span>
<span class="nv">$containerBuilder</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">registerExtension</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">AcmeDemoExtension</span><span class="p">);</span>

<span class="nv">$loader</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">YamlFileLoader</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="nv">$containerBuilder</span><span class="p">,</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">FileLocator</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="no">__DIR__</span><span class="p">));</span>
<span class="nv">$loader</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">load</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="s1">&#39;config.yaml&#39;</span><span class="p">);</span>

<span class="c1">// ...</span>
<span class="nv">$containerBuilder</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">compile</span><span class="p">();</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="admonition-title">Note</p>
<p>When loading a config file that uses an extension alias as a key, the
extension must already have been registered with the container builder
or an exception will be thrown.</p>
</div>
<p>The values from those sections of the config files are passed into the first
argument of the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">load()</span></code> method of the extension:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="k">public</span> <span class="k">function</span> <span class="nf">load</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="k">array</span> <span class="nv">$configs</span><span class="p">,</span> <span class="nx">ContainerBuilder</span> <span class="nv">$container</span><span class="p">)</span>
<span class="p">{</span>
    <span class="nv">$foo</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="nv">$configs</span><span class="p">[</span><span class="mi">0</span><span class="p">][</span><span class="s1">&#39;foo&#39;</span><span class="p">];</span> <span class="c1">//fooValue</span>
    <span class="nv">$bar</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="nv">$configs</span><span class="p">[</span><span class="mi">0</span><span class="p">][</span><span class="s1">&#39;bar&#39;</span><span class="p">];</span> <span class="c1">//barValue</span>
<span class="p">}</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>The <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">$configs</span></code> argument is an array containing each different config file
that was loaded into the container. You are only loading a single config
file in the above example but it will still be within an array. The array
will look like this:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="p">[</span>
    <span class="p">[</span>
        <span class="s1">&#39;foo&#39;</span> <span class="o">=&gt;</span> <span class="s1">&#39;fooValue&#39;</span><span class="p">,</span>
        <span class="s1">&#39;bar&#39;</span> <span class="o">=&gt;</span> <span class="s1">&#39;barValue&#39;</span><span class="p">,</span>
    <span class="p">],</span>
<span class="p">]</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>Whilst you can manually manage merging the different files, it is much better
to use <a class="reference internal" href="../config.xhtml"><span class="doc">the Config component</span></a> to
merge and validate the config values. Using the configuration processing
you could access the config value this way:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="k">use</span> <span class="nx">Symfony\Component\Config\Definition\Processor</span><span class="p">;</span>
<span class="c1">// ...</span>

<span class="k">public</span> <span class="k">function</span> <span class="nf">load</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="k">array</span> <span class="nv">$configs</span><span class="p">,</span> <span class="nx">ContainerBuilder</span> <span class="nv">$container</span><span class="p">)</span>
<span class="p">{</span>
    <span class="nv">$configuration</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">Configuration</span><span class="p">();</span>
    <span class="nv">$processor</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">Processor</span><span class="p">();</span>
    <span class="nv">$config</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="nv">$processor</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">processConfiguration</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="nv">$configuration</span><span class="p">,</span> <span class="nv">$configs</span><span class="p">);</span>

    <span class="nv">$foo</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="nv">$config</span><span class="p">[</span><span class="s1">&#39;foo&#39;</span><span class="p">];</span> <span class="c1">//fooValue</span>
    <span class="nv">$bar</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="nv">$config</span><span class="p">[</span><span class="s1">&#39;bar&#39;</span><span class="p">];</span> <span class="c1">//barValue</span>

    <span class="c1">// ...</span>
<span class="p">}</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>There are a further two methods you must implement. One to return the XML
namespace so that the relevant parts of an XML config file are passed to
the extension. The other to specify the base path to XSD files to validate
the XML configuration:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="k">public</span> <span class="k">function</span> <span class="nf">getXsdValidationBasePath</span><span class="p">()</span>
<span class="p">{</span>
    <span class="k">return</span> <span class="no">__DIR__</span><span class="o">.</span><span class="s1">&#39;/../Resources/config/&#39;</span><span class="p">;</span>
<span class="p">}</span>

<span class="k">public</span> <span class="k">function</span> <span class="nf">getNamespace</span><span class="p">()</span>
<span class="p">{</span>
    <span class="k">return</span> <span class="s1">&#39;http://www.example.com/symfony/schema/&#39;</span><span class="p">;</span>
<span class="p">}</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="admonition-title">Note</p>
<p>XSD validation is optional, returning <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">false</span></code> from the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">getXsdValidationBasePath()</span></code>
method will disable it.</p>
</div>
<p>The XML version of the config would then look like this:</p>
<div class="highlight-xml notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre> 1
 2
 3
 4
 5
 6
 7
 8
 9
10
11</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="cp">&lt;?xml version=&quot;1.0&quot; ?&gt;</span>
<span class="nt">&lt;container</span> <span class="na">xmlns=</span><span class="s">&quot;http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services&quot;</span>
    <span class="na">xmlns:xsi=</span><span class="s">&quot;http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance&quot;</span>
    <span class="na">xmlns:acme_demo=</span><span class="s">&quot;http://www.example.com/symfony/schema/&quot;</span>
    <span class="na">xsi:schemaLocation=</span><span class="s">&quot;http://www.example.com/symfony/schema/ https://www.example.com/symfony/schema/hello-1.0.xsd&quot;</span><span class="nt">&gt;</span>

    <span class="nt">&lt;acme_demo:config&gt;</span>
        <span class="nt">&lt;acme_demo:foo&gt;</span>fooValue<span class="nt">&lt;/acme_demo:foo&gt;</span>
        <span class="nt">&lt;acme_demo:bar&gt;</span>barValue<span class="nt">&lt;/acme_demo:bar&gt;</span>
    <span class="nt">&lt;/acme_demo:config&gt;</span>
<span class="nt">&lt;/container&gt;</span>
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="admonition-title">Note</p>
<p>In the Symfony full-stack Framework there is a base Extension class
which implements these methods as well as a shortcut method for processing
the configuration. See <a class="reference internal" href="../../bundles/extension.xhtml"><span class="doc">How to Load Service Configuration inside a Bundle</span></a> for more details.</p>
</div>
<p>The processed config value can now be added as container parameters as if
it were listed in a <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">parameters</span></code> section of the config file but with the
additional benefit of merging multiple files and validation of the configuration:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="k">public</span> <span class="k">function</span> <span class="nf">load</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="k">array</span> <span class="nv">$configs</span><span class="p">,</span> <span class="nx">ContainerBuilder</span> <span class="nv">$container</span><span class="p">)</span>
<span class="p">{</span>
    <span class="nv">$configuration</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">Configuration</span><span class="p">();</span>
    <span class="nv">$processor</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">Processor</span><span class="p">();</span>
    <span class="nv">$config</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="nv">$processor</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">processConfiguration</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="nv">$configuration</span><span class="p">,</span> <span class="nv">$configs</span><span class="p">);</span>

    <span class="nv">$container</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">setParameter</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="s1">&#39;acme_demo.FOO&#39;</span><span class="p">,</span> <span class="nv">$config</span><span class="p">[</span><span class="s1">&#39;foo&#39;</span><span class="p">]);</span>

    <span class="c1">// ...</span>
<span class="p">}</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>More complex configuration requirements can be catered for in the Extension
classes. For example, you may choose to load a main service configuration
file but also load a secondary one only if a certain parameter is set:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="k">public</span> <span class="k">function</span> <span class="nf">load</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="k">array</span> <span class="nv">$configs</span><span class="p">,</span> <span class="nx">ContainerBuilder</span> <span class="nv">$container</span><span class="p">)</span>
<span class="p">{</span>
    <span class="nv">$configuration</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">Configuration</span><span class="p">();</span>
    <span class="nv">$processor</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">Processor</span><span class="p">();</span>
    <span class="nv">$config</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="nv">$processor</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">processConfiguration</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="nv">$configuration</span><span class="p">,</span> <span class="nv">$configs</span><span class="p">);</span>

    <span class="nv">$loader</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">XmlFileLoader</span><span class="p">(</span>
        <span class="nv">$container</span><span class="p">,</span>
        <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">FileLocator</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="no">__DIR__</span><span class="o">.</span><span class="s1">&#39;/../Resources/config&#39;</span><span class="p">)</span>
    <span class="p">);</span>
    <span class="nv">$loader</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">load</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="s1">&#39;services.xml&#39;</span><span class="p">);</span>

    <span class="k">if</span> <span class="p">(</span><span class="nv">$config</span><span class="p">[</span><span class="s1">&#39;advanced&#39;</span><span class="p">])</span> <span class="p">{</span>
        <span class="nv">$loader</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">load</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="s1">&#39;advanced.xml&#39;</span><span class="p">);</span>
    <span class="p">}</span>
<span class="p">}</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="admonition-title">Note</p>
<p>Just registering an extension with the container is not enough to get
it included in the processed extensions when the container is compiled.
Loading config which uses the extension’s alias as a key as in the above
examples will ensure it is loaded. The container builder can also be
told to load it with its
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/symfony/symfony/blob/master/src/Symfony/Component/DependencyInjection/ContainerBuilder.php" title="Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\ContainerBuilder::loadFromExtension()"><span class="pre">loadFromExtension()</span></a><span class="link-target"> <span class="pre">[https://github.com/symfony/symfony/blob/master/src/Symfony/Component/DependencyInjection/ContainerBuilder.php]</span></span></code>
method:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="k">use</span> <span class="nx">Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\ContainerBuilder</span><span class="p">;</span>

<span class="nv">$containerBuilder</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">ContainerBuilder</span><span class="p">();</span>
<span class="nv">$extension</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">AcmeDemoExtension</span><span class="p">();</span>
<span class="nv">$containerBuilder</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">registerExtension</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="nv">$extension</span><span class="p">);</span>
<span class="nv">$containerBuilder</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">loadFromExtension</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="nv">$extension</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">getAlias</span><span class="p">());</span>
<span class="nv">$containerBuilder</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">compile</span><span class="p">();</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="admonition-title">Note</p>
<p>If you need to manipulate the configuration loaded by an extension then
you cannot do it from another extension as it uses a fresh container.
You should instead use a compiler pass which works with the full container
after the extensions have been processed.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="prepending-configuration-passed-to-the-extension">
<span id="components-dependency-injection-compiler-passes"></span><h2>Prepending Configuration Passed to the Extension</h2>
<p>An Extension can prepend the configuration of any Bundle before the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">load()</span></code>
method is called by implementing
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/symfony/symfony/blob/master/src/Symfony/Component/DependencyInjection/Extension/PrependExtensionInterface.php" title="Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\Extension\PrependExtensionInterface"><span class="pre">PrependExtensionInterface</span></a><span class="link-target"> <span class="pre">[https://github.com/symfony/symfony/blob/master/src/Symfony/Component/DependencyInjection/Extension/PrependExtensionInterface.php]</span></span></code>:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="k">use</span> <span class="nx">Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\Extension\PrependExtensionInterface</span><span class="p">;</span>
<span class="c1">// ...</span>

<span class="k">class</span> <span class="nc">AcmeDemoExtension</span> <span class="k">implements</span> <span class="nx">ExtensionInterface</span><span class="p">,</span> <span class="nx">PrependExtensionInterface</span>
<span class="p">{</span>
    <span class="c1">// ...</span>

    <span class="k">public</span> <span class="k">function</span> <span class="nf">prepend</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="nx">ContainerBuilder</span> <span class="nv">$container</span><span class="p">)</span>
    <span class="p">{</span>
        <span class="c1">// ...</span>

        <span class="nv">$container</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">prependExtensionConfig</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="nv">$name</span><span class="p">,</span> <span class="nv">$config</span><span class="p">);</span>

        <span class="c1">// ...</span>
    <span class="p">}</span>
<span class="p">}</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>For more details, see <a class="reference internal" href="../../bundles/prepend_extension.xhtml"><span class="doc">How to Simplify Configuration of Multiple Bundles</span></a>, which
is specific to the Symfony Framework, but contains more details about this
feature.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="execute-code-during-compilation">
<span id="components-di-compiler-pass"></span><span id="creating-a-compiler-pass"></span><h2>Execute Code During Compilation</h2>
<p>You can also execute custom code during compilation by writing your own
compiler pass. By implementing
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/symfony/symfony/blob/master/src/Symfony/Component/DependencyInjection/Compiler/CompilerPassInterface.php" title="Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\Compiler\CompilerPassInterface"><span class="pre">CompilerPassInterface</span></a><span class="link-target"> <span class="pre">[https://github.com/symfony/symfony/blob/master/src/Symfony/Component/DependencyInjection/Compiler/CompilerPassInterface.php]</span></span></code>
in your extension, the added <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">process()</span></code> method will be called during
compilation:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="c1">// ...</span>
<span class="k">use</span> <span class="nx">Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\Compiler\CompilerPassInterface</span><span class="p">;</span>

<span class="k">class</span> <span class="nc">AcmeDemoExtension</span> <span class="k">implements</span> <span class="nx">ExtensionInterface</span><span class="p">,</span> <span class="nx">CompilerPassInterface</span>
<span class="p">{</span>
    <span class="k">public</span> <span class="k">function</span> <span class="nf">process</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="nx">ContainerBuilder</span> <span class="nv">$container</span><span class="p">)</span>
    <span class="p">{</span>
        <span class="c1">// ... do something during the compilation</span>
    <span class="p">}</span>

    <span class="c1">// ...</span>
<span class="p">}</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>As <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">process()</span></code> is called <em>after</em> all extensions are loaded, it allows you to
edit service definitions of other extensions as well as retrieving information
about service definitions.</p>
<p>The container’s parameters and definitions can be manipulated using the
methods described in <a class="reference internal" href="../../service_container/definitions.xhtml"><span class="doc">How to work with Service Definition Objects</span></a>.</p>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="admonition-title">Note</p>
<p>Please note that the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">process()</span></code> method in the extension class is
called during the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">PassConfig::TYPE_BEFORE_OPTIMIZATION</span></code> step. You can read
<a class="reference internal" href="#components-di-separate-compiler-passes"><span class="std std-ref">the next section</span></a> if you
need to edit the container during another step.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="admonition-title">Note</p>
<p>As a rule, only work with services definition in a compiler pass and do not
create service instances. In practice, this means using the methods
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">has()</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">findDefinition()</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">getDefinition()</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">setDefinition()</span></code>,
etc. instead of <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">get()</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">set()</span></code>, etc.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p>Make sure your compiler pass does not require services to exist. Abort the
method call if some required service is not available.</p>
</div>
<p>A common use-case of compiler passes is to search for all service definitions
that have a certain tag in order to process dynamically plug each into some
other service. See the section on <a class="reference internal" href="../../service_container/tags.xhtml#service-container-compiler-pass-tags"><span class="std std-ref">service tags</span></a>
for an example.</p>
<div class="section" id="creating-separate-compiler-passes">
<span id="components-di-separate-compiler-passes"></span><h3>Creating Separate Compiler Passes</h3>
<p>Sometimes, you need to do more than one thing during compilation, want to use
compiler passes without an extension or you need to execute some code at
another step in the compilation process. In these cases, you can create a new
class implementing the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">CompilerPassInterface</span></code>:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="k">use</span> <span class="nx">Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\Compiler\CompilerPassInterface</span><span class="p">;</span>
<span class="k">use</span> <span class="nx">Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\ContainerBuilder</span><span class="p">;</span>

<span class="k">class</span> <span class="nc">CustomPass</span> <span class="k">implements</span> <span class="nx">CompilerPassInterface</span>
<span class="p">{</span>
    <span class="k">public</span> <span class="k">function</span> <span class="nf">process</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="nx">ContainerBuilder</span> <span class="nv">$container</span><span class="p">)</span>
    <span class="p">{</span>
        <span class="c1">// ... do something during the compilation</span>
    <span class="p">}</span>
<span class="p">}</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>You then need to register your custom pass with the container:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="k">use</span> <span class="nx">Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\ContainerBuilder</span><span class="p">;</span>

<span class="nv">$containerBuilder</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">ContainerBuilder</span><span class="p">();</span>
<span class="nv">$containerBuilder</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">addCompilerPass</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">CustomPass</span><span class="p">());</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="admonition-title">Note</p>
<p>Compiler passes are registered differently if you are using the full-stack
framework, see <a class="reference internal" href="../../service_container/compiler_passes.xhtml"><span class="doc">How to Work with Compiler Passes</span></a> for
more details.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="controlling-the-pass-ordering">
<h4>Controlling the Pass Ordering</h4>
<p>The default compiler passes are grouped into optimization passes and removal
passes. The optimization passes run first and include tasks such as resolving
references within the definitions. The removal passes perform tasks such
as removing private aliases and unused services. When registering compiler
passes using <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">addCompilerPass()</span></code>, you can configure when your compiler pass
is run. By default, they are run before the optimization passes.</p>
<p>You can use the following constants to determine when your pass is executed:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">PassConfig::TYPE_BEFORE_OPTIMIZATION</span></code></p></li>
<li><p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">PassConfig::TYPE_OPTIMIZE</span></code></p></li>
<li><p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">PassConfig::TYPE_BEFORE_REMOVING</span></code></p></li>
<li><p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">PassConfig::TYPE_REMOVE</span></code></p></li>
<li><p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">PassConfig::TYPE_AFTER_REMOVING</span></code></p></li>
</ul>
<p>For example, to run your custom pass after the default removal passes have
been run, use:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="c1">// ...</span>
<span class="nv">$containerBuilder</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">addCompilerPass</span><span class="p">(</span>
    <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">CustomPass</span><span class="p">(),</span>
    <span class="nx">PassConfig</span><span class="o">::</span><span class="na">TYPE_AFTER_REMOVING</span>
<span class="p">);</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>You can also control the order in which compiler passes are run for each
compilation phase. Use the optional third argument of <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">addCompilerPass()</span></code> to
set the priority as an integer number. The default priority is <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">0</span></code> and the higher
its value, the earlier it’s executed:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="c1">// ...</span>
<span class="c1">// FirstPass is executed after SecondPass because its priority is lower</span>
<span class="nv">$container</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">addCompilerPass</span><span class="p">(</span>
    <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">FirstPass</span><span class="p">(),</span> <span class="nx">PassConfig</span><span class="o">::</span><span class="na">TYPE_AFTER_REMOVING</span><span class="p">,</span> <span class="mi">10</span>
<span class="p">);</span>
<span class="nv">$container</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">addCompilerPass</span><span class="p">(</span>
    <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">SecondPass</span><span class="p">(),</span> <span class="nx">PassConfig</span><span class="o">::</span><span class="na">TYPE_AFTER_REMOVING</span><span class="p">,</span> <span class="mi">30</span>
<span class="p">);</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="dumping-the-configuration-for-performance">
<span id="components-dependency-injection-dumping"></span><h2>Dumping the Configuration for Performance</h2>
<p>Using configuration files to manage the service container can be much easier
to understand than using PHP once there are a lot of services. This ease
comes at a price though when it comes to performance as the config files
need to be parsed and the PHP configuration built from them. The compilation
process makes the container more efficient but it takes time to run. You
can have the best of both worlds though by using configuration files and
then dumping and caching the resulting configuration. The <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">PhpDumper</span></code>
serves at dumping the compiled container:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="k">use</span> <span class="nx">Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\ContainerBuilder</span><span class="p">;</span>
<span class="k">use</span> <span class="nx">Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\Dumper\PhpDumper</span><span class="p">;</span>

<span class="nv">$file</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="no">__DIR__</span> <span class="o">.</span><span class="s1">&#39;/cache/container.php&#39;</span><span class="p">;</span>

<span class="k">if</span> <span class="p">(</span><span class="nb">file_exists</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="nv">$file</span><span class="p">))</span> <span class="p">{</span>
    <span class="k">require_once</span> <span class="nv">$file</span><span class="p">;</span>
    <span class="nv">$container</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">ProjectServiceContainer</span><span class="p">();</span>
<span class="p">}</span> <span class="k">else</span> <span class="p">{</span>
    <span class="nv">$containerBuilder</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">ContainerBuilder</span><span class="p">();</span>
    <span class="c1">// ...</span>
    <span class="nv">$containerBuilder</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">compile</span><span class="p">();</span>

    <span class="nv">$dumper</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">PhpDumper</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="nv">$containerBuilder</span><span class="p">);</span>
    <span class="nb">file_put_contents</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="nv">$file</span><span class="p">,</span> <span class="nv">$dumper</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">dump</span><span class="p">());</span>
<span class="p">}</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">ProjectServiceContainer</span></code> is the default name given to the dumped container
class. However, you can change this with the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">class</span></code> option when you
dump it:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="c1">// ...</span>
<span class="nv">$file</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="no">__DIR__</span> <span class="o">.</span><span class="s1">&#39;/cache/container.php&#39;</span><span class="p">;</span>

<span class="k">if</span> <span class="p">(</span><span class="nb">file_exists</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="nv">$file</span><span class="p">))</span> <span class="p">{</span>
    <span class="k">require_once</span> <span class="nv">$file</span><span class="p">;</span>
    <span class="nv">$container</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">MyCachedContainer</span><span class="p">();</span>
<span class="p">}</span> <span class="k">else</span> <span class="p">{</span>
    <span class="nv">$containerBuilder</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">ContainerBuilder</span><span class="p">();</span>
    <span class="c1">// ...</span>
    <span class="nv">$containerBuilder</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">compile</span><span class="p">();</span>

    <span class="nv">$dumper</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">PhpDumper</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="nv">$containerBuilder</span><span class="p">);</span>
    <span class="nb">file_put_contents</span><span class="p">(</span>
        <span class="nv">$file</span><span class="p">,</span>
        <span class="nv">$dumper</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">dump</span><span class="p">([</span><span class="s1">&#39;class&#39;</span> <span class="o">=&gt;</span> <span class="s1">&#39;MyCachedContainer&#39;</span><span class="p">])</span>
    <span class="p">);</span>
<span class="p">}</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>You will now get the speed of the PHP configured container with the ease
of using configuration files. Additionally dumping the container in this
way further optimizes how the services are created by the container.</p>
<p>In the above example you will need to delete the cached container file whenever
you make any changes. Adding a check for a variable that determines if you
are in debug mode allows you to keep the speed of the cached container in
production but getting an up to date configuration whilst developing your
application:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="c1">// ...</span>

<span class="c1">// based on something in your project</span>
<span class="nv">$isDebug</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="o">...</span><span class="p">;</span>

<span class="nv">$file</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="no">__DIR__</span> <span class="o">.</span><span class="s1">&#39;/cache/container.php&#39;</span><span class="p">;</span>

<span class="k">if</span> <span class="p">(</span><span class="o">!</span><span class="nv">$isDebug</span> <span class="o">&amp;&amp;</span> <span class="nb">file_exists</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="nv">$file</span><span class="p">))</span> <span class="p">{</span>
    <span class="k">require_once</span> <span class="nv">$file</span><span class="p">;</span>
    <span class="nv">$container</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">MyCachedContainer</span><span class="p">();</span>
<span class="p">}</span> <span class="k">else</span> <span class="p">{</span>
    <span class="nv">$containerBuilder</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">ContainerBuilder</span><span class="p">();</span>
    <span class="c1">// ...</span>
    <span class="nv">$containerBuilder</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">compile</span><span class="p">();</span>

    <span class="k">if</span> <span class="p">(</span><span class="o">!</span><span class="nv">$isDebug</span><span class="p">)</span> <span class="p">{</span>
        <span class="nv">$dumper</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">PhpDumper</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="nv">$containerBuilder</span><span class="p">);</span>
        <span class="nb">file_put_contents</span><span class="p">(</span>
            <span class="nv">$file</span><span class="p">,</span>
            <span class="nv">$dumper</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">dump</span><span class="p">([</span><span class="s1">&#39;class&#39;</span> <span class="o">=&gt;</span> <span class="s1">&#39;MyCachedContainer&#39;</span><span class="p">])</span>
        <span class="p">);</span>
    <span class="p">}</span>
<span class="p">}</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>This could be further improved by only recompiling the container in debug
mode when changes have been made to its configuration rather than on every
request. This can be done by caching the resource files used to configure
the container in the way described in “<a class="reference internal" href="../config/caching.xhtml"><span class="doc">Caching based on Resources</span></a>”
in the config component documentation.</p>
<p>You do not need to work out which files to cache as the container builder
keeps track of all the resources used to configure it, not just the
configuration files but the extension classes and compiler passes as well.
This means that any changes to any of these files will invalidate the cache
and trigger the container being rebuilt. You need to ask the container
for these resources and use them as metadata for the cache:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="c1">// ...</span>

<span class="c1">// based on something in your project</span>
<span class="nv">$isDebug</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="o">...</span><span class="p">;</span>

<span class="nv">$file</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="no">__DIR__</span> <span class="o">.</span><span class="s1">&#39;/cache/container.php&#39;</span><span class="p">;</span>
<span class="nv">$containerConfigCache</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">ConfigCache</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="nv">$file</span><span class="p">,</span> <span class="nv">$isDebug</span><span class="p">);</span>

<span class="k">if</span> <span class="p">(</span><span class="o">!</span><span class="nv">$containerConfigCache</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">isFresh</span><span class="p">())</span> <span class="p">{</span>
    <span class="nv">$containerBuilder</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">ContainerBuilder</span><span class="p">();</span>
    <span class="c1">// ...</span>
    <span class="nv">$containerBuilder</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">compile</span><span class="p">();</span>

    <span class="nv">$dumper</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">PhpDumper</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="nv">$containerBuilder</span><span class="p">);</span>
    <span class="nv">$containerConfigCache</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">write</span><span class="p">(</span>
        <span class="nv">$dumper</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">dump</span><span class="p">([</span><span class="s1">&#39;class&#39;</span> <span class="o">=&gt;</span> <span class="s1">&#39;MyCachedContainer&#39;</span><span class="p">]),</span>
        <span class="nv">$containerBuilder</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">getResources</span><span class="p">()</span>
    <span class="p">);</span>
<span class="p">}</span>

<span class="k">require_once</span> <span class="nv">$file</span><span class="p">;</span>
<span class="nv">$container</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">MyCachedContainer</span><span class="p">();</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>Now the cached dumped container is used regardless of whether debug mode
is on or not. The difference is that the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">ConfigCache</span></code> is set to debug
mode with its second constructor argument. When the cache is not in debug
mode the cached container will always be used if it exists. In debug mode,
an additional metadata file is written with all the involved resource
files. These are then checked to see if their timestamps have changed, if they
have the cache will be considered stale.</p>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="admonition-title">Note</p>
<p>In the full-stack framework the compilation and caching of the container
is taken care of for you.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>