<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>How to Install and Use the Symfony Components</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/rtd_custom.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="how-to-install-and-use-the-symfony-components">
<span id="how-to-install-and-use-the-symfony2-components"></span><span id="index-0"></span><h1>How to Install and Use the Symfony Components</h1>
<p>If you’re starting a new project (or already have a project) that will use
one or more components, the easiest way to integrate everything is with <a class="reference external" href="https://getcomposer.org">Composer</a><span class="link-target"> [https://getcomposer.org]</span>.
Composer is smart enough to download the component(s) that you need and take
care of autoloading so that you can begin using the libraries immediately.</p>
<p>This article will take you through using <a class="reference internal" href="finder.xhtml"><span class="doc">The Finder Component</span></a>, though
this applies to using any component.</p>
<div class="section" id="using-the-finder-component">
<h2>Using the Finder Component</h2>
<p><strong>1.</strong> If you’re creating a new project, create a new empty directory for it.</p>
<p><strong>2.</strong> Open a terminal, step into this directory and use Composer to grab the library.</p>
<div class="highlight-terminal notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre>1</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="gp">$</span> composer require symfony/finder
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
<p>The name <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">symfony/finder</span></code> is written at the top of the documentation for
whatever component you want.</p>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p><a class="reference external" href="https://getcomposer.org/download/">Install Composer</a><span class="link-target"> [https://getcomposer.org/download/]</span> if you don’t have it already present on your system.
Depending on how you install, you may end up with a <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">composer.phar</span></code>
file in your directory. In that case, no worries! Your command line in that
case is <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">php</span> <span class="pre">composer.phar</span> <span class="pre">require</span> <span class="pre">symfony/finder</span></code>.</p>
</div>
<p><strong>3.</strong> Write your code!</p>
<p>Once Composer has downloaded the component(s), all you need to do is include
the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">vendor/autoload.php</span></code> file that was generated by Composer. This file
takes care of autoloading all of the libraries so that you can use them
immediately:</p>
<div class="highlight-php notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="c1">// Project structure example:</span>
<span class="c1">// my_project/</span>
<span class="c1">//     data/</span>
<span class="c1">//         ...              # Some project data</span>
<span class="c1">//     src/</span>
<span class="c1">//         my_script.php    # Main entry point</span>
<span class="c1">//     vendor/</span>
<span class="c1">//         autoload.php     # Autoloader generated by Composer</span>
<span class="c1">//         ...              # Packages downloaded by Composer</span>

<span class="c1">// File example: src/my_script.php</span>
<span class="c1">// Autoloader relative path to this PHP file</span>
<span class="k">require_once</span> <span class="no">__DIR__</span><span class="o">.</span><span class="s1">&#39;/../vendor/autoload.php&#39;</span><span class="p">;</span>

<span class="k">use</span> <span class="nx">Symfony\Component\Finder\Finder</span><span class="p">;</span>

<span class="nv">$finder</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="k">new</span> <span class="nx">Finder</span><span class="p">();</span>
<span class="nv">$finder</span><span class="o">-&gt;</span><span class="na">in</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="s1">&#39;../data/&#39;</span><span class="p">);</span>

<span class="c1">// rest of your PHP code...</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="now-what">
<h2>Now what?</h2>
<p>Now, the component is installed and autoloaded. Read the specific component’s
documentation to find out more about how to use it.</p>
<p>And have fun!</p>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>