<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Creating Page-Specific CSS/JS</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../_static/rtd_custom.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="creating-page-specific-css-js">
<h1>Creating Page-Specific CSS/JS</h1>
<p>If you’re creating a single page app (SPA), then you probably only need to define
<em>one</em> entry in <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">webpack.config.js</span></code>. But if you have multiple pages, you might
want page-specific CSS and JavaScript.</p>
<p>To learn how to set this up, see the <a class="reference internal" href="simple-example.xhtml#multiple-javascript-entries"><span class="std std-ref">Page-Specific JavaScript or CSS (Multiple Entries)</span></a> example.</p>
<div class="section" id="multiple-entries-per-page">
<h2>Multiple Entries Per Page?</h2>
<p>Typically, you should include only <em>one</em> JavaScript entry per page. Think of the
checkout page as its own “app”, where <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">checkout.js</span></code> includes all the functionality
you need.</p>
<p>However, it’s pretty common to need to include some global JavaScript and CSS on
every page. For that reason, it usually makes sense to have one entry (e.g. <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">app</span></code>)
that contains this global code (both JavaScript &amp; CSS) and is included on every
page (i.e. it’s included in the <em>layout</em> of your app). This means that you will
always have one, global entry on every page (e.g. <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">app</span></code>) and you <em>may</em> have one
page-specific JavaScript and CSS file from a page-specific entry (e.g. <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">checkout</span></code>).</p>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p>Be sure to use <a class="reference internal" href="split-chunks.xhtml"><span class="doc">split chunks</span></a>
to avoid duplicating and shared code between your entry files.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>