<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Reporting a Bug</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../_static/rtd_custom.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="reporting-a-bug">
<h1>Reporting a Bug</h1>
<p>Whenever you find a bug in Symfony, we kindly ask you to report it. It helps
us make a better Symfony.</p>
<div class="admonition caution">
<p class="admonition-title">Caution</p>
<p>If you think you’ve found a security issue, please use the special
<a class="reference internal" href="security.xhtml"><span class="doc">procedure</span></a> instead.</p>
</div>
<p>Before submitting a bug:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Double-check the official <a class="reference internal" href="../../index.xhtml"><span class="doc">documentation</span></a> to see if you’re not misusing the
framework;</p></li>
<li><p>Ask for assistance on <a class="reference external" href="https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/symfony">Stack Overflow</a><span class="link-target"> [https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/symfony]</span>, on the #support channel of
<a class="reference external" href="https://symfony.com/slack-invite">the Symfony Slack</a><span class="link-target"> [https://symfony.com/slack-invite]</span> or on the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">#symfony</span></code> <a class="reference external" href="https://symfony.com/irc">IRC channel</a><span class="link-target"> [https://symfony.com/irc]</span> if you’re not sure if
your issue really is a bug.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>If your problem definitely looks like a bug, report it using the official bug
<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/symfony/symfony/issues">tracker</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/symfony/symfony/issues]</span> and follow some basic rules:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Use the title field to clearly describe the issue;</p></li>
<li><p>Describe the steps needed to reproduce the bug with short code examples
(providing a unit test that illustrates the bug is best);</p></li>
<li><p>If the bug you experienced is not simple or affects more than one layer,
providing a simple failing unit test may not be sufficient. In this case,
please <a class="reference internal" href="reproducer.xhtml"><span class="doc">provide a reproducer</span></a>;</p></li>
<li><p>Give as much detail as possible about your environment (OS, PHP version,
Symfony version, enabled extensions, …);</p></li>
<li><p>If there was an exception and you would like to report it, it is
valuable to provide the <a class="reference internal" href="stack_trace.xhtml"><span class="doc">stack trace</span></a> for that exception.
If you want to provide a stack trace you got on an HTML page, be sure to
provide the plain text version, which should appear at the bottom of the
page. <em>Do not</em> provide it as a screenshot, since search engines will not be
able to index the text inside them. Same goes for errors encountered in a
terminal, do not take a screenshot, but copy/paste the contents. If
the stack trace is long, consider enclosing it in a <a class="reference external" href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/details">&lt;details&gt; HTML tag</a><span class="link-target"> [https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/details]</span>.
<strong>Be wary that stack traces may contain sensitive information, and if it is
the case, be sure to redact them prior to posting your stack trace.</strong></p></li>
<li><p><em>(optional)</em> Attach a <a class="reference internal" href="pull_requests.xhtml"><span class="doc">patch</span></a>.</p></li>
</ul>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>