<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Symfony Core Team</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../_static/rtd_custom.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="symfony-core-team">
<h1>Symfony Core Team</h1>
<p>The <strong>Symfony Core</strong> team is the group of developers that determine the
direction and evolution of the Symfony project. Their votes rule if the
features and patches proposed by the community are approved or rejected.</p>
<p>All the Symfony Core members are long-time contributors with solid technical
expertise and they have demonstrated a strong commitment to drive the project
forward.</p>
<p>This document states the rules that govern the Symfony core team. These rules
are effective upon publication of this document and all Symfony Core members
must adhere to said rules and protocol.</p>
<div class="section" id="core-organization">
<h2>Core Organization</h2>
<p>Symfony Core members are divided into groups. Each member can only belong to one
group at a time. The privileges granted to a group are automatically granted to
all higher priority groups.</p>
<p>The Symfony Core groups, in descending order of priority, are as follows:</p>
<ol class="arabic simple">
<li><p><strong>Project Leader</strong></p></li>
</ol>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Elects members in any other group;</p></li>
<li><p>Merges pull requests in all Symfony repositories.</p></li>
</ul>
<ol class="arabic simple" start="2">
<li><p><strong>Mergers Team</strong></p></li>
</ol>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Merge pull requests on the main Symfony repository.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>In addition, there are other groups created to manage specific topics:</p>
<p><strong>Security Team</strong></p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Manage the whole security process (triaging reported vulnerabilities, fixing
the reported issues, coordinating the release of security fixes, etc.)</p></li>
</ul>
<p><strong>Recipes Team</strong></p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Manage the recipes in the main and contrib recipe repositories.</p></li>
</ul>
<p><strong>Documentation Team</strong></p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Manage the whole <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/symfony/symfony-docs">symfony-docs repository</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/symfony/symfony-docs]</span>.</p></li>
</ul>
<div class="section" id="active-core-members">
<h3>Active Core Members</h3>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><strong>Project Leader</strong>:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><strong>Fabien Potencier</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/fabpot/">fabpot</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/fabpot/]</span>).</p></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p><strong>Mergers Team</strong> (<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&#64;symfony/mergers</span></code> on GitHub):</p>
<ul>
<li><p><strong>Nicolas Grekas</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/nicolas-grekas/">nicolas-grekas</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/nicolas-grekas/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Christophe Coevoet</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/stof/">stof</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/stof/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Christian Flothmann</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/xabbuh/">xabbuh</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/xabbuh/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Tobias Schultze</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/Tobion/">Tobion</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/Tobion/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Kévin Dunglas</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/dunglas/">dunglas</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/dunglas/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Jakub Zalas</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/jakzal/">jakzal</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/jakzal/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Javier Eguiluz</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/javiereguiluz/">javiereguiluz</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/javiereguiluz/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Grégoire Pineau</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/lyrixx/">lyrixx</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/lyrixx/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Ryan Weaver</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/weaverryan/">weaverryan</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/weaverryan/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Robin Chalas</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/chalasr/">chalasr</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/chalasr/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Maxime Steinhausser</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/ogizanagi/">ogizanagi</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/ogizanagi/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Samuel Rozé</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/sroze">sroze</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/sroze]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Yonel Ceruto</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/yceruto">yceruto</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/yceruto]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Tobias Nyholm</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/Nyholm">Nyholm</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/Nyholm]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Wouter De Jong</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/wouterj">wouterj</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/wouterj]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Alexander M. Turek</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/derrabus/">derrabus</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/derrabus/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Jérémy Derussé</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/jderusse/">jderusse</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/jderusse/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Titouan Galopin</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/tgalopin/">tgalopin</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/tgalopin/]</span>).</p></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p><strong>Security Team</strong> (<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&#64;symfony/security</span></code> on GitHub):</p>
<ul>
<li><p><strong>Fabien Potencier</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/fabpot/">fabpot</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/fabpot/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Michael Cullum</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/michaelcullum">michaelcullum</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/michaelcullum]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Jérémy Derussé</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/jderusse/">jderusse</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/jderusse/]</span>).</p></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p><strong>Recipes Team</strong>:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><strong>Fabien Potencier</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/fabpot/">fabpot</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/fabpot/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Tobias Nyholm</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/Nyholm">Nyholm</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/Nyholm]</span>).</p></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p><strong>Documentation Team</strong> (<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&#64;symfony/team-symfony-docs</span></code> on GitHub):</p>
<ul>
<li><p><strong>Fabien Potencier</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/fabpot/">fabpot</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/fabpot/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Ryan Weaver</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/weaverryan/">weaverryan</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/weaverryan/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Christian Flothmann</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/xabbuh/">xabbuh</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/xabbuh/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Wouter De Jong</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/wouterj">wouterj</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/wouterj]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Jules Pietri</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/HeahDude">HeahDude</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/HeahDude]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Javier Eguiluz</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/javiereguiluz/">javiereguiluz</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/javiereguiluz/]</span>).</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Oskar Stark</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/OskarStark">OskarStark</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/OskarStark]</span>).</p></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="former-core-members">
<h3>Former Core Members</h3>
<p>They are no longer part of the core team, but we are very grateful for all their
Symfony contributions:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><strong>Bernhard Schussek</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/webmozart/">webmozart</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/webmozart/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Abdellatif AitBoudad</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/aitboudad/">aitboudad</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/aitboudad/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Romain Neutron</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/romainneutron">romainneutron</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/romainneutron]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Jordi Boggiano</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/Seldaek/">Seldaek</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/Seldaek/]</span>);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Lukas Kahwe Smith</strong> (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/lsmith77/">lsmith77</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/lsmith77/]</span>).</p></li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="core-membership-application">
<h3>Core Membership Application</h3>
<p>At present, new Symfony Core membership applications are not accepted.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="core-membership-revocation">
<h3>Core Membership Revocation</h3>
<p>A Symfony Core membership can be revoked for any of the following reasons:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Refusal to follow the rules and policies stated in this document;</p></li>
<li><p>Lack of activity for the past six months;</p></li>
<li><p>Willful negligence or intent to harm the Symfony project;</p></li>
<li><p>Upon decision of the <strong>Project Leader</strong>.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Should new Symfony Core memberships be accepted in the future, revoked
members must wait at least 12 months before re-applying.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="code-development-rules">
<h2>Code Development Rules</h2>
<p>Symfony project development is based on pull requests proposed by any member
of the Symfony community. Pull request acceptance or rejection is decided based
on the votes cast by the Symfony Core members.</p>
<div class="section" id="pull-request-voting-policy">
<h3>Pull Request Voting Policy</h3>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">-1</span></code> votes must always be justified by technical and objective reasons;</p></li>
<li><p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">+1</span></code> votes do not require justification, unless there is at least one
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">-1</span></code> vote;</p></li>
<li><p>Core members can change their votes as many times as they desire
during the course of a pull request discussion;</p></li>
<li><p>Core members are not allowed to vote on their own pull requests.</p></li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="pull-request-merging-policy">
<h3>Pull Request Merging Policy</h3>
<p>A pull request <strong>can be merged</strong> if:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>It is a minor change <a class="footnote-reference brackets" href="#id3" id="id1">1</a>;</p></li>
<li><p>Enough time was given for peer reviews;</p></li>
<li><p>At least two <strong>Merger Team</strong> members voted <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">+1</span></code> (only one if the submitter
is part of the Merger team) and no Core member voted <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">-1</span></code> (via GitHub
reviews or as comments).</p></li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="pull-request-merging-process">
<h3>Pull Request Merging Process</h3>
<p>All code must be committed to the repository through pull requests, except for
minor changes <a class="footnote-reference brackets" href="#id3" id="id2">1</a> which can be committed directly to the repository.</p>
<p><strong>Mergers</strong> must always use the command-line <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">gh</span></code> tool provided by the
<strong>Project Leader</strong> to merge the pull requests.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="release-policy">
<h3>Release Policy</h3>
<p>The <strong>Project Leader</strong> is also the release manager for every Symfony version.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="symfony-core-rules-and-protocol-amendments">
<h2>Symfony Core Rules and Protocol Amendments</h2>
<p>The rules described in this document may be amended at anytime at the
discretion of the <strong>Project Leader</strong>.</p>
<dl class="footnote brackets">
<dt class="label" id="id3"><span class="brackets">1</span><span class="fn-backref">(<a href="#id1">1</a>,<a href="#id2">2</a>)</span></dt>
<dd><p>Minor changes comprise typos, DocBlock fixes, code standards
violations, and minor CSS, JavaScript and HTML modifications.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>