<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Maintenance</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../_static/rtd_custom.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="maintenance">
<h1>Maintenance</h1>
<p>During the lifetime of a minor version, new releases (patch versions) are
published on a monthly basis. This document describes the boundaries of
acceptable changes.</p>
<p><strong>Bug fixes</strong> are accepted under the following conditions:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>The change does not break valid unit tests;</p></li>
<li><p>New unit tests cover the bug fix;</p></li>
<li><p>The current buggy behavior is not widely used as a “feature”.</p></li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="admonition-title">Note</p>
<p>When documentation (or PHPDoc) is not in sync with the code, code behavior
should always be considered as being the correct one.</p>
</div>
<p>Besides bug fixes, other minor changes can be accepted in a patch version:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><strong>Performance improvement</strong>: Performance improvement should only be accepted
if the changes are local (located in one class) and only for algorithmic
issues (any such patches must come with numbers that show a significant
improvement on real-world code);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Newer versions of PHP</strong>: Fixes that add support for newer versions of
PHP are acceptable if they don’t break the unit test suite;</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Newer versions of popular OSes</strong>: Fixes that add support for newer versions
of popular OSes (Linux, MacOS and Windows) are acceptable if they don’t break
the unit test suite;</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Translations</strong>: Translation updates and additions are accepted;</p></li>
<li><p><strong>External data</strong>: Updates for external data included in Symfony can be
updated (like ICU for instance);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Version updates for Composer dependencies</strong>: Changing the minimal version
of a dependency is possible, bumping to a major one or increasing PHP
minimal version is not;</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Coding standard and refactoring</strong>: Coding standard fixes or code
refactoring are not recommended but can be accepted for consistency with the
existing code base, if they are not too invasive, and if merging them on
master would not lead to complex branch merging;</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Tests</strong>: Tests that increase the code coverage can be added.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Anything not explicitly listed above should be done on the next minor or major
version instead (aka the <em>master</em> branch). For instance, the following changes
are never accepted in a patch version:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><strong>New features</strong>;</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Backward compatibility breaks</strong>: Note that backward compatibility breaks
can be done when fixing a security issue if it would not be possible to fix
it otherwise;</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Support for external platforms</strong>: Adding support for new platforms (like
Google App Engine) cannot be done in patch versions;</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Exception messages</strong>: Exception messages must not be changed as some
automated systems might rely on them (even if this is not recommended);</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Adding new Composer dependencies</strong>;</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Support for newer major versions of Composer dependencies</strong>: Taking into
account support for newer versions of an existing dependency is not
acceptable.</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Web design</strong>: Changing the web design of built-in pages like exceptions,
the toolbar or the profiler is not allowed.</p></li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="admonition-title">Note</p>
<p>This policy is designed to enable a continuous upgrade path that allows one
to move forward with newest Symfony versions in the safest way. One should
be able to move PHP versions, OS or Symfony versions almost independently.
That’s the reason why supporting the latest PHP versions or OS features is
considered as bug fixes.</p>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>