<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Proposing a Change</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../_static/rtd_custom.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="proposing-a-change">
<h1>Proposing a Change</h1>
<p>A pull request, “PR” for short, is the best way to provide a bug fix or to
propose enhancements to Symfony.</p>
<div class="section" id="step-1-check-existing-issues-and-pull-requests">
<h2>Step 1: Check existing Issues and Pull Requests</h2>
<p>Before working on a change, check to see if someone else also raised the topic
or maybe even started working on a PR by <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/symfony/symfony/issues?q=+is%3Aopen+">searching on GitHub</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/symfony/symfony/issues?q=+is%3Aopen+]</span>.</p>
<p>If you are unsure or if you have any questions during this entire process,
please ask your questions on the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">#contribs</span></code> channel on <a class="reference external" href="https://symfony.com/slack-invite">Symfony Slack</a><span class="link-target"> [https://symfony.com/slack-invite]</span>.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="step-2-setup-your-environment">
<span id="step-1-setup-your-environment"></span><h2>Step 2: Setup your Environment</h2>
<div class="section" id="install-the-software-stack">
<h3>Install the Software Stack</h3>
<p>Before working on Symfony, setup a friendly environment with the following
software:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Git;</p></li>
<li><p>PHP version 7.2.5 or above.</p></li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="configure-git">
<h3>Configure Git</h3>
<p>Set up your user information with your real name and a working email address:</p>
<div class="highlight-terminal notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre>1
2</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="gp">$</span> git config --global user.name <span class="s2">&quot;Your Name&quot;</span>
<span class="gp">$</span> git config --global user.email you@example.com
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p>If you are new to Git, you are highly recommended to read the excellent and
free <a class="reference external" href="https://git-scm.com/book">ProGit</a><span class="link-target"> [https://git-scm.com/book]</span> book.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p>If your IDE creates configuration files inside the project’s directory,
you can use global <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">.gitignore</span></code> file (for all projects) or
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">.git/info/exclude</span></code> file (per project) to ignore them. See
<a class="reference external" href="https://help.github.com/github/using-git/ignoring-files">GitHub’s documentation</a><span class="link-target"> [https://help.github.com/github/using-git/ignoring-files]</span>.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p>Windows users: when installing Git, the installer will ask what to do with
line endings, and suggests replacing all LF with CRLF. This is the wrong
setting if you wish to contribute to Symfony! Selecting the as-is method is
your best choice, as Git will convert your line feeds to the ones in the
repository. If you have already installed Git, you can check the value of
this setting by typing:</p>
<div class="highlight-terminal notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre>1</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="gp">$</span> git config core.autocrlf
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
<p>This will return either “false”, “input” or “true”; “true” and “false” being
the wrong values. Change it to “input” by typing:</p>
<div class="highlight-terminal notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre>1</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="gp">$</span> git config --global core.autocrlf input
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
<p>Replace –global by –local if you want to set it only for the active
repository</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="get-the-symfony-source-code">
<h3>Get the Symfony Source Code</h3>
<p>Get the Symfony source code:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Create a <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/join">GitHub</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/join]</span> account and sign in;</p></li>
<li><p>Fork the <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/symfony/symfony">Symfony repository</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/symfony/symfony]</span> (click on the “Fork” button);</p></li>
<li><p>After the “forking action” has completed, clone your fork locally
(this will create a <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">symfony</span></code> directory):</p></li>
</ul>
<div class="highlight-terminal notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre>1</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="gp">$</span> git clone git@github.com:USERNAME/symfony.git
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Add the upstream repository as a remote:</p></li>
</ul>
<div class="highlight-terminal notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre>1
2</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="gp">$</span> <span class="nb">cd</span> symfony
<span class="gp">$</span> git remote add upstream git://github.com/symfony/symfony.git
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="check-that-the-current-tests-pass">
<h3>Check that the current Tests Pass</h3>
<p>Now that Symfony is installed, check that all unit tests pass for your
environment as explained in the dedicated <a class="reference internal" href="tests.xhtml"><span class="doc">document</span></a>.</p>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p>If tests are failing, check on <a class="reference external" href="https://travis-ci.org/symfony/symfony">Travis-CI</a><span class="link-target"> [https://travis-ci.org/symfony/symfony]</span> if the same test is
failing there as well. In that case you do not need to be concerned
about the test failing locally.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="step-3-work-on-your-pull-request">
<span id="step-2-work-on-your-patch"></span><h2>Step 3: Work on your Pull Request</h2>
<div class="section" id="the-license">
<h3>The License</h3>
<p>Before you start, you should be aware that all the code you are going to submit
must be released under the <em>MIT license</em>.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="choose-the-right-branch">
<h3>Choose the right Branch</h3>
<p>Before working on a PR, you must determine on which branch you need to
work:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">4.4</span></code>, if you are fixing a bug for an existing feature or want to make a
change that falls into the <a class="reference internal" href="maintenance.xhtml"><span class="doc">list of acceptable changes in patch versions</span></a> (you may have to choose a higher branch if
the feature you are fixing was introduced in a later version);</p></li>
<li><p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">5.x</span></code>, if you are adding a new feature.</p>
<p>The only exception is when a new <a class="reference internal" href="../community/releases.xhtml"><span class="doc">major Symfony version</span></a>
(5.0, 6.0, etc.) comes out every two years. Because of the
<a class="reference internal" href="../community/releases.xhtml#major-version-development"><span class="std std-ref">special development process</span></a> of those versions,
you need to use the previous minor version for the features (e.g. use <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">4.4</span></code>
instead of <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">5.0</span></code>, use <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">5.4</span></code> instead of <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">6.0</span></code>, etc.)</p>
</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="admonition-title">Note</p>
<p>All bug fixes merged into maintenance branches are also merged into more
recent branches on a regular basis. For instance, if you submit a PR
for the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">4.4</span></code> branch, the PR will also be applied by the core team on
the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">5.x</span></code> branch.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="create-a-topic-branch">
<h3>Create a Topic Branch</h3>
<p>Each time you want to work on a PR for a bug or on an enhancement, create a
topic branch:</p>
<div class="highlight-terminal notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre>1</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="gp">$</span> git checkout -b BRANCH_NAME <span class="m">5</span>.x
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
<p>Or, if you want to provide a bug fix for the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">4.4</span></code> branch, first track the remote
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">4.4</span></code> branch locally:</p>
<div class="highlight-terminal notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre>1</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="gp">$</span> git checkout --track origin/4.4
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
<p>Then create a new branch off the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">4.4</span></code> branch to work on the bug fix:</p>
<div class="highlight-terminal notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre>1</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="gp">$</span> git checkout -b BRANCH_NAME <span class="m">4</span>.4
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p>Use a descriptive name for your branch (<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">ticket_XXX</span></code> where <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">XXX</span></code> is the
ticket number is a good convention for bug fixes).</p>
</div>
<p>The above checkout commands automatically switch the code to the newly created
branch (check the branch you are working on with <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">git</span> <span class="pre">branch</span></code>).</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="use-your-branch-in-an-existing-project">
<h3>Use your Branch in an Existing Project</h3>
<p>If you want to test your code in an existing project that uses <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">symfony/symfony</span></code>
or Symfony components, you can use the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">link</span></code> utility provided in the Git repository
you cloned previously.
This tool scans the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">vendor/</span></code> directory of your project, finds Symfony packages it
uses, and replaces them by symbolic links to the ones in the Git repository.</p>
<div class="highlight-terminal notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre>1</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="gp">$</span> php link /path/to/your/project
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
<p>Before running the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">link</span></code> command, be sure that the dependencies of the project you
want to debug are installed by running <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">composer</span> <span class="pre">install</span></code> inside it.</p>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p>If symlinks to your local Symfony fork cannot be resolved inside your project due to
your dev environment (for instance when using Vagrant where only the current project
directory is mounted), you can alternatively use the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">--copy</span></code> option.
When finishing testing your Symfony code into your project, you can use
the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">--rollback</span></code> option to make your project back to its original dependencies.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="work-on-your-pull-request">
<span id="work-on-your-patch"></span><h3>Work on your Pull Request</h3>
<p>Work on the code as much as you want and commit as much as you want; but keep
in mind the following:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Read about the Symfony <a class="reference internal" href="conventions.xhtml"><span class="doc">conventions</span></a> and follow the
coding <a class="reference internal" href="standards.xhtml"><span class="doc">standards</span></a> (use <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">git</span> <span class="pre">diff</span> <span class="pre">--check</span></code> to check for
trailing spaces – also read the tip below);</p></li>
<li><p>Add unit tests to prove that the bug is fixed or that the new feature
actually works;</p></li>
<li><p>Try hard to not break backward compatibility (if you must do so, try to
provide a compatibility layer to support the old way) – PRs that break
backward compatibility have less chance to be merged;</p></li>
<li><p>Do atomic and logically separate commits (use the power of <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">git</span> <span class="pre">rebase</span></code> to
have a clean and logical history);</p></li>
<li><p>Never fix coding standards in some existing code as it makes the code review
more difficult;</p></li>
<li><p>Write good commit messages (see the tip below).</p></li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p>When submitting pull requests, <a class="reference external" href="https://fabbot.io">fabbot</a><span class="link-target"> [https://fabbot.io]</span> checks your code
for common typos and verifies that you are using the PHP coding standards
as defined in <a class="reference external" href="https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-1/">PSR-1</a><span class="link-target"> [https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-1/]</span> and <a class="reference external" href="https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-2/">PSR-2</a><span class="link-target"> [https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-2/]</span>.</p>
<p>A status is posted below the pull request description with a summary
of any problems it detects or any <a class="reference external" href="https://travis-ci.org/symfony/symfony">Travis-CI</a><span class="link-target"> [https://travis-ci.org/symfony/symfony]</span> build failures.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p>A good commit message is composed of a summary (the first line),
optionally followed by a blank line and a more detailed description. The
summary should start with the Component you are working on in square
brackets (<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">[DependencyInjection]</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">[FrameworkBundle]</span></code>, …). Use a
verb (<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">fixed</span> <span class="pre">...</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">added</span> <span class="pre">...</span></code>, …) to start the summary and don’t
add a period at the end.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="prepare-your-pull-request-for-submission">
<span id="prepare-your-patch-for-submission"></span><h3>Prepare your Pull Request for Submission</h3>
<p>When your PR is not about a bug fix (when you add a new feature or change
an existing one for instance), it must also include the following:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>An explanation of the changes in the relevant <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">CHANGELOG</span></code> file(s) (the
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">[BC</span> <span class="pre">BREAK]</span></code> or the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">[DEPRECATION]</span></code> prefix must be used when relevant);</p></li>
<li><p>An explanation on how to upgrade an existing application in the relevant
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">UPGRADE</span></code> file(s) if the changes break backward compatibility or if you
deprecate something that will ultimately break backward compatibility.</p></li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="step-4-submit-your-pull-request">
<span id="step-4-submit-your-patch"></span><h2>Step 4: Submit your Pull Request</h2>
<p>Whenever you feel that your PR is ready for submission, follow the
following steps.</p>
<div class="section" id="rebase-your-pull-request">
<span id="rebase-your-patch"></span><h3>Rebase your Pull Request</h3>
<p>Before submitting your PR, update your branch (needed if it takes you a
while to finish your changes):</p>
<div class="highlight-terminal notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre>1
2
3
4
5</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="gp">$</span> git checkout <span class="m">5</span>.x
<span class="gp">$</span> git fetch upstream
<span class="gp">$</span> git merge upstream/5.x
<span class="gp">$</span> git checkout BRANCH_NAME
<span class="gp">$</span> git rebase <span class="m">5</span>.x
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p>Replace <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">5.x</span></code> with the branch you selected previously (e.g. <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">4.4</span></code>)
if you are working on a bug fix.</p>
</div>
<p>When doing the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rebase</span></code> command, you might have to fix merge conflicts.
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">git</span> <span class="pre">status</span></code> will show you the <em>unmerged</em> files. Resolve all the conflicts,
then continue the rebase:</p>
<div class="highlight-terminal notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre>1
2</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="gp">$</span> git add ... # add resolved files
<span class="gp">$</span> git rebase --continue
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
<p>Check that all tests still pass and push your branch remotely:</p>
<div class="highlight-terminal notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre>1</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="gp">$</span> git push --force origin BRANCH_NAME
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="make-a-pull-request">
<span id="contributing-code-pull-request"></span><h3>Make a Pull Request</h3>
<p>You can now make a pull request on the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">symfony/symfony</span></code> GitHub repository.</p>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p>Take care to point your pull request towards <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">symfony:4.4</span></code> if you want
the core team to pull a bug fix based on the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">4.4</span></code> branch.</p>
</div>
<p>To ease the core team work, always include the modified components in your
pull request message, like in:</p>
<div class="highlight-text notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre>1
2</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span>[Yaml] fixed something
[Form] [Validator] [FrameworkBundle] added something
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
<p>The default pull request description contains a table which you must fill in
with the appropriate answers. This ensures that contributions may be reviewed
without needless feedback loops and that your contributions can be included into
Symfony as quickly as possible.</p>
<p>Some answers to the questions trigger some more requirements:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>If you answer yes to “Bug fix?”, check if the bug is already listed in the
Symfony issues and reference it/them in “Fixed tickets”;</p></li>
<li><p>If you answer yes to “New feature?”, you must submit a pull request to the
documentation and reference it under the “Doc PR” section;</p></li>
<li><p>If you answer yes to “BC breaks?”, the PR must contain updates to the
relevant <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">CHANGELOG</span></code> and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">UPGRADE</span></code> files;</p></li>
<li><p>If you answer yes to “Deprecations?”, the PR must contain updates to the
relevant <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">CHANGELOG</span></code> and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">UPGRADE</span></code> files;</p></li>
<li><p>If you answer no to “Tests pass”, you must add an item to a todo-list with
the actions that must be done to fix the tests;</p></li>
<li><p>If the “license” is not MIT, just don’t submit the pull request as it won’t
be accepted anyway.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>If some of the previous requirements are not met, create a todo-list and add
relevant items:</p>
<div class="highlight-text notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre>1
2
3</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span>- [ ] fix the tests as they have not been updated yet
- [ ] submit changes to the documentation
- [ ] document the BC breaks
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
<p>If the code is not finished yet because you don’t have time to finish it or
because you want early feedback on your work, add an item to todo-list:</p>
<div class="highlight-text notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre>1
2</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span>- [ ] finish the code
- [ ] gather feedback for my changes
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
<p>As long as you have items in the todo-list, please prefix the pull request
title with “[WIP]”. If you do not yet want to trigger the automated tests,
you can also set the PR to <a class="reference external" href="https://help.github.com/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-pull-requests#draft-pull-requests">draft status</a><span class="link-target"> [https://help.github.com/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-pull-requests#draft-pull-requests]</span>.</p>
<p>In the pull request description, give as much detail as possible about your
changes (don’t hesitate to give code examples to illustrate your points). If
your pull request is about adding a new feature or modifying an existing one,
explain the rationale for the changes. The pull request description helps the
code review and it serves as a reference when the code is merged (the pull
request description and all its associated comments are part of the merge
commit message).</p>
<p>In addition to this “code” pull request, you must also send a pull request to
the <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/symfony/symfony-docs">documentation repository</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/symfony/symfony-docs]</span> to update the documentation when appropriate.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="step-5-receiving-feedback">
<h2>Step 5: Receiving Feedback</h2>
<p>We ask all contributors to follow some
<a class="reference internal" href="../community/reviews.xhtml"><span class="doc">best practices</span></a>
to ensure a constructive feedback process.</p>
<p>If you think someone fails to keep this advice in mind and you want another
perspective, please join the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">#contribs</span></code> channel on <a class="reference external" href="https://symfony.com/slack-invite">Symfony Slack</a><span class="link-target"> [https://symfony.com/slack-invite]</span>. If you
receive feedback you find abusive please contact the
<a class="reference internal" href="../code_of_conduct/care_team.xhtml"><span class="doc">CARE team</span></a>.</p>
<p>The <a class="reference internal" href="core_team.xhtml"><span class="doc">core team</span></a> is responsible for deciding
which PR gets merged, so their feedback is the most relevant. So do not feel
pressured to refactor your code immediately when someone provides feedback.</p>
<div class="section" id="rework-your-pull-request">
<span id="rework-your-patch"></span><h3>Rework your Pull Request</h3>
<p>Based on the feedback on the pull request, you might need to rework your
PR. Before re-submitting the PR, rebase with <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">upstream/5.x</span></code> or
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">upstream/4.4</span></code>, don’t merge; and force the push to the origin:</p>
<div class="highlight-terminal notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre>1
2</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="gp">$</span> git rebase -f upstream/5.x
<span class="gp">$</span> git push --force origin BRANCH_NAME
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="admonition-title">Note</p>
<p>When doing a <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">push</span> <span class="pre">--force</span></code>, always specify the branch name explicitly
to avoid messing other branches in the repository (<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">--force</span></code> tells Git
that you really want to mess with things so do it carefully).</p>
</div>
<p>Moderators earlier asked you to “squash” your commits. This means you will
convert many commits to one commit. This is no longer necessary today, because
Symfony project uses a proprietary tool which automatically squashes all commits
before merging.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>