<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Security Issues</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../_static/rtd_custom.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="security-issues">
<h1>Security Issues</h1>
<p>This document explains how Symfony security issues are handled by the
Symfony core team (Symfony being the code hosted on the main <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">symfony/symfony</span></code>
<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/symfony/symfony">Git repository</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/symfony/symfony]</span>).</p>
<div class="section" id="reporting-a-security-issue">
<h2>Reporting a Security Issue</h2>
<p>If you think that you have found a security issue in Symfony, don’t use the
bug tracker and don’t publish it publicly. Instead, all security issues must
be sent to <strong>security [at] symfony.com</strong>. Emails sent to this address are
forwarded to the Symfony core team private mailing-list.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="resolving-process">
<h2>Resolving Process</h2>
<p>For each report, we first try to confirm the vulnerability. When it is
confirmed, the core team works on a solution following these steps:</p>
<ol class="arabic simple">
<li><p>Send an acknowledgment to the reporter;</p></li>
<li><p>Work on a patch;</p></li>
<li><p>Get a CVE identifier from <a class="reference external" href="https://cveform.mitre.org/">mitre.org</a><span class="link-target"> [https://cveform.mitre.org/]</span>;</p></li>
<li><p>Write a security announcement for the official Symfony <a class="reference external" href="https://symfony.com/blog/">blog</a><span class="link-target"> [https://symfony.com/blog/]</span> about the
vulnerability. This post should contain the following information:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>a title that always include the “Security release” string;</p></li>
<li><p>a description of the vulnerability;</p></li>
<li><p>the affected versions;</p></li>
<li><p>the possible exploits;</p></li>
<li><p>how to patch/upgrade/workaround affected applications;</p></li>
<li><p>the CVE identifier;</p></li>
<li><p>credits.</p></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p>Send the patch and the announcement to the reporter for review;</p></li>
<li><p>Apply the patch to all maintained versions of Symfony;</p></li>
<li><p>Package new versions for all affected versions;</p></li>
<li><p>Publish the post on the official Symfony <a class="reference external" href="https://symfony.com/blog/">blog</a><span class="link-target"> [https://symfony.com/blog/]</span> (it must also be added to
the “<a class="reference external" href="https://symfony.com/blog/category/security-advisories">Security Advisories</a><span class="link-target"> [https://symfony.com/blog/category/security-advisories]</span>” category);</p></li>
<li><p>Update the public <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/FriendsOfPHP/security-advisories">security advisories database</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/FriendsOfPHP/security-advisories]</span> maintained by the
FriendsOfPHP organization and which is used by
<a class="reference internal" href="../../setup.xhtml#security-checker"><span class="std std-ref">the check:security command</span></a>.</p></li>
</ol>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="admonition-title">Note</p>
<p>Releases that include security issues should not be done on Saturday or
Sunday, except if the vulnerability has been publicly posted.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="admonition-title">Note</p>
<p>While we are working on a patch, please do not reveal the issue publicly.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="admonition-title">Note</p>
<p>The resolution takes anywhere between a couple of days to a month depending
on its complexity and the coordination with the downstream projects (see
next paragraph).</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="collaborating-with-downstream-open-source-projects">
<h2>Collaborating with Downstream Open-Source Projects</h2>
<p>As Symfony is used by many large Open-Source projects, we standardized the way
the Symfony security team collaborates on security issues with downstream
projects. The process works as follows:</p>
<ol class="arabic simple">
<li><p>After the Symfony security team has acknowledged a security issue, it
immediately sends an email to the downstream project security teams to
inform them of the issue;</p></li>
<li><p>The Symfony security team creates a private Git repository to ease the
collaboration on the issue and access to this repository is given to the
Symfony security team, to the Symfony contributors that are impacted by
the issue, and to one representative of each downstream projects;</p></li>
<li><p>All people with access to the private repository work on a solution to
solve the issue via pull requests, code reviews, and comments;</p></li>
<li><p>Once the fix is found, all involved projects collaborate to find the best
date for a joint release (there is no guarantee that all releases will
be at the same time but we will try hard to make them at about the same
time). When the issue is not known to be exploited in the wild, a period
of two weeks is considered a reasonable amount of time.</p></li>
</ol>
<p>The list of downstream projects participating in this process is kept as small
as possible in order to better manage the flow of confidential information
prior to disclosure. As such, projects are included at the sole discretion of
the Symfony security team.</p>
<p>As of today, the following projects have validated this process and are part
of the downstream projects included in this process:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Drupal (releases typically happen on Wednesdays)</p></li>
<li><p>eZPublish</p></li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="issue-severity">
<h2>Issue Severity</h2>
<p>In order to determine the severity of a security issue we take into account
the complexity of any potential attack, the impact of the vulnerability and
also how many projects it is likely to affect. This score out of 15 is then
converted into a level of: Low, Medium, High, Critical, or Exceptional.</p>
<div class="section" id="attack-complexity">
<h3>Attack Complexity</h3>
<p><em>Score of between 1 and 5 depending on how complex it is to exploit the
vulnerability</em></p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>4 - 5 Basic: attacker must follow a set of simple steps</p></li>
<li><p>2 - 3 Complex: attacker must follow non-intuitive steps with a high level
of dependencies</p></li>
<li><p>1 - 2 High: A successful attack depends on conditions beyond the attacker’s
control. That is, a successful attack cannot be accomplished at will, but
requires the attacker to invest in some measurable amount of effort in
preparation or execution against the vulnerable component before a successful
attack can be expected.</p></li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="impact">
<h3>Impact</h3>
<p><em>Scores from the following areas are added together to produce a score. The
score for Impact is capped at 6. Each area is scored between 0 and 4.</em></p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Integrity: Does this vulnerability cause non-public data to be accessible?
If so, does the attacker have control over the data disclosed? (0-4)</p></li>
<li><p>Disclosure: Can this exploit allow system data (or data handled by the
system) to be compromised? If so, does the attacker have control over
modification? (0-4)</p></li>
<li><p>Code Execution: Does the vulnerability allow arbitrary code to be executed
on an end-users system, or the server that it runs on? (0-4)</p></li>
<li><p>Availability: Is the availability of a service or application affected? Is
it reduced availability or total loss of availability of a service /
application? Availability includes networked services (e.g., databases) or
resources such as consumption of network bandwidth, processor cycles, or
disk space. (0-4)</p></li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="affected-projects">
<h3>Affected Projects</h3>
<p><em>Scores from the following areas are added together to produce a score. The
score for Affected Projects is capped at 4.</em></p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Will it affect some or all using a component? (1-2)</p></li>
<li><p>Is the usage of the component that would cause such a thing already
considered bad practice? (0-1)</p></li>
<li><p>How common/popular is the component (e.g. Console vs HttpFoundation vs
Lock)? (0-2)</p></li>
<li><p>Are a number of well-known open source projects using Symfony affected
that requires coordinated releases? (0-1)</p></li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="score-totals">
<h3>Score Totals</h3>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Attack Complexity: 1 - 5</p></li>
<li><p>Impact: 1 - 6</p></li>
<li><p>Affected Projects: 1 - 4</p></li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="severity-levels">
<h3>Severity levels</h3>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Low: 1 - 5</p></li>
<li><p>Medium: 6 - 10</p></li>
<li><p>High: 11 - 12</p></li>
<li><p>Critical: 13 - 14</p></li>
<li><p>Exceptional: 15</p></li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="security-advisories">
<h2>Security Advisories</h2>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p>You can check your Symfony application for known security vulnerabilities
using <a class="reference internal" href="../../setup.xhtml#security-checker"><span class="std std-ref">the check:security command</span></a>.</p>
</div>
<p>Check the <a class="reference external" href="https://symfony.com/blog/category/security-advisories">Security Advisories</a><span class="link-target"> [https://symfony.com/blog/category/security-advisories]</span> blog category for a list of all security
vulnerabilities that were fixed in Symfony releases, starting from Symfony
1.0.0.</p>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>