<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Community Reviews</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../_static/rtd_custom.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="community-reviews">
<h1>Community Reviews</h1>
<p>Symfony is an open-source project driven by a large community. If you don’t feel
ready to contribute code or patches, reviewing issues and pull requests (PRs)
can be a great start to get involved and give back. In fact, people who “triage”
issues are the backbone to Symfony’s success!</p>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="admonition-title">Note</p>
<p>Communicating in a way where your words come across as intended can be
difficult. Please read through the
<a class="reference internal" href="review-comments.xhtml"><span class="doc">Respectful Review Comments</span></a>
guidelines.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="why-reviewing-is-important">
<h2>Why Reviewing Is Important</h2>
<p>Community reviews are essential for the development of the Symfony framework,
since there are many more pull requests and bug reports than there are members
in the Symfony core team to review, fix and merge them.</p>
<p>On the <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/symfony/symfony/issues">Symfony issue tracker</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/symfony/symfony/issues]</span>, you can find many items in a <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/symfony/symfony/labels/Status%3A%20Needs%20Review">Needs Review</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/symfony/symfony/labels/Status%3A%20Needs%20Review]</span>
status:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><strong>Bug Reports</strong>: Bug reports need to be checked for completeness.
Is any important information missing? Can the bug be reproduced?</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Pull Requests</strong>: Pull requests contain code that fixes a bug or implements
new functionality. Reviews of pull requests ensure that they are implemented
properly, are covered by test cases, don’t introduce new bugs and maintain
backward compatibility.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Note that <strong>anyone who has some basic familiarity with Symfony and PHP can
review bug reports and pull requests</strong>. You don’t need to be an expert to help.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="be-constructive">
<h2>Be Constructive</h2>
<p>Before you begin, remember that you are looking at the result of someone else’s
hard work. A good review comment thanks the contributor for their work,
identifies what was done well, identifies what should be improved and suggests a
next step.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="create-a-github-account">
<h2>Create a GitHub Account</h2>
<p>Symfony uses <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com">GitHub</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com]</span> to manage bug reports and pull requests. If you want to
do reviews, you need to <a class="reference external" href="https://help.github.com/github/getting-started-with-github/signing-up-for-a-new-github-account">create a GitHub account</a><span class="link-target"> [https://help.github.com/github/getting-started-with-github/signing-up-for-a-new-github-account]</span> and log in.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="the-bug-report-review-process">
<h2>The Bug Report Review Process</h2>
<p>A good way to get started with reviewing is to pick a bug report from the
<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/symfony/symfony/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&amp;q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Bug%22+label%3A%22Status%3A+Needs+Review%22+">bug reports in need of review</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/symfony/symfony/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&amp;q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Bug%22+label%3A%22Status%3A+Needs+Review%22+]</span>.</p>
<p>The steps for the review are:</p>
<ol class="arabic">
<li><p><strong>Is the Report Complete?</strong></p>
<p>Good bug reports contain a link to a project (the “reproduction project”)
created with the <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/symfony/skeleton">Symfony skeleton</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/symfony/skeleton]</span> or the <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/symfony/website-skeleton">Symfony website skeleton</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/symfony/website-skeleton]</span>
that reproduces the bug. If it doesn’t, the report should at least contain
enough information and code samples to reproduce the bug.</p>
</li>
<li><p><strong>Reproduce the Bug</strong></p>
<p>Download the reproduction project and test whether the bug can be reproduced
on your system. If the reporter did not provide a reproduction project,
create one based on one <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/symfony/skeleton">Symfony skeleton</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/symfony/skeleton]</span> (or the <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/symfony/website-skeleton">Symfony website skeleton</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/symfony/website-skeleton]</span>).</p>
</li>
<li><p><strong>Update the Issue Status</strong></p>
<p>At last, add a comment to the bug report. <strong>Thank the reporter for reporting
the bug</strong>. Include the line <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">Status:</span> <span class="pre">&lt;status&gt;</span></code> in your comment to trigger
our <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/carsonbot/carsonbot">Carson Bot</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/carsonbot/carsonbot]</span> which updates the status label of the issue. You can set
the status to one of the following:</p>
<p><strong>Needs Work</strong> If the bug <em>does not</em> contain enough information to be
reproduced, explain what information is missing and move the report to this
status.</p>
<p><strong>Works for me</strong> If the bug <em>does</em> contain enough information to be
reproduced but works on your system, or if the reported bug is a feature and
not a bug, provide a short explanation and move the report to this status.</p>
<p><strong>Reviewed</strong> If you can reproduce the bug, move the report to this status.
If you created a reproduction project, include the link to the project in
your comment.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<div class="topic">
<p class="topic-title first">Example</p>
<p>Here is a sample comment for a bug report that could be reproduced:</p>
<div class="highlight-text notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre>1
2
3
4
5</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span>Thank you @weaverryan for creating this bug report! This indeed looks
like a bug. I reproduced the bug in the &quot;kernel-bug&quot; branch of
https://github.com/webmozart/some-project.

Status: Reviewed
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="the-pull-request-review-process">
<h2>The Pull Request Review Process</h2>
<p>The process for reviewing pull requests (PRs) is similar to the one for bug
reports. Reviews of pull requests usually take a little longer since you need
to understand the functionality that has been fixed or added and find out
whether the implementation is complete.</p>
<p>It is okay to do partial reviews! If you do a partial review, comment how far
you got and leave the PR in “Needs Review” state.</p>
<p>Pick a pull request from the <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/symfony/symfony/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3A%22Status%3A+Needs+Review%22">PRs in need of review</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/symfony/symfony/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3A%22Status%3A+Needs+Review%22]</span> and follow these steps:</p>
<ol class="arabic">
<li><p><strong>Is the PR Complete</strong>?</p>
<p>Every pull request must contain a header that gives some basic information
about the PR. You can find the template for that header in the
<a class="reference internal" href="../code/pull_requests.xhtml#contributing-code-pull-request"><span class="std std-ref">Contribution Guidelines</span></a>.</p>
</li>
<li><p><strong>Is the Base Branch Correct?</strong></p>
<p>GitHub displays the branch that a PR is based on below the title of the
pull request. Is that branch correct?</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Bugs should be fixed in the oldest, maintained version that contains the
bug. Check <a class="reference internal" href="releases.xhtml"><span class="doc">Symfony’s Release Schedule</span></a> to find the oldest
currently supported version.</p></li>
<li><p>New features should always be added to the current development version.
Check the <a class="reference external" href="https://symfony.com/releases">Symfony Roadmap</a><span class="link-target"> [https://symfony.com/releases]</span> to find the current development version.</p></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p><strong>Reproduce the Problem</strong></p>
<p>Read the issue that the pull request is supposed to fix. Reproduce the
problem on a new project created with the <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/symfony/skeleton">Symfony skeleton</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/symfony/skeleton]</span> (or the
<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/symfony/website-skeleton">Symfony website skeleton</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/symfony/website-skeleton]</span>) and try to understand why it exists. If the
linked issue already contains such a project, install it and run it on your system.</p>
</li>
<li><p><strong>Review the Code</strong></p>
<p>Read the code of the pull request and check it against some common criteria:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Does the code address the issue the PR is intended to fix/implement?</p></li>
<li><p>Does the PR stay within scope to address <em>only</em> that issue?</p></li>
<li><p>Does the PR contain automated tests? Do those tests cover all relevant
edge cases?</p></li>
<li><p>Does the PR contain sufficient comments to understand its code?</p></li>
<li><p>Does the code break backward compatibility? If yes, does the PR header say
so?</p></li>
<li><p>Does the PR contain deprecations? If yes, does the PR header say so? Does
the code contain <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">trigger_deprecation()</span></code> statements for all deprecated
features?</p></li>
<li><p>Are all deprecations and backward compatibility breaks documented in the
latest UPGRADE-X.X.md file? Do those explanations contain “Before”/”After”
examples with clear upgrade instructions?</p></li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="admonition-title">Note</p>
<p>Eventually, some of these aspects will be checked automatically.</p>
</div>
</li>
<li><p><strong>Test the Code</strong></p>
<p>Take your project from step 3 and test whether the PR works properly.
Replace the Symfony project in the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">vendor</span></code> directory by the code in the
PR by running the following Git commands. Insert the PR ID (that’s the number
after the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">#</span></code> in the PR title) for the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&lt;ID&gt;</span></code> placeholders:</p>
<div class="highlight-text notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre>1
2
3</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span>$ cd vendor/symfony/symfony
$ git fetch origin pull/&lt;ID&gt;/head:pr&lt;ID&gt;
$ git checkout pr&lt;ID&gt;
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
<p>For example:</p>
<div class="highlight-text notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre>1
2</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span>$ git fetch origin pull/15723/head:pr15723
$ git checkout pr15723
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
<p>Now you can <a class="reference internal" href="../code/tests.xhtml"><span class="doc">test the project</span></a> against
the code in the PR.</p>
</li>
<li><p><strong>Update the PR Status</strong></p>
<p>At last, add a comment to the PR. <strong>Thank the contributor for working on the
PR</strong>. Include the line <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">Status:</span> <span class="pre">&lt;status&gt;</span></code> in your comment to trigger our
<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/carsonbot/carsonbot">Carson Bot</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/carsonbot/carsonbot]</span> which updates the status label of the issue. You can set the
status to one of the following:</p>
<p><strong>Needs Work</strong> If the PR is not yet ready to be merged, explain the issues
that you found and move it to this status.</p>
<p><strong>Reviewed</strong> If the PR satisfies all the checks above, move it to this
status. A core contributor will soon look at the PR and decide whether it can
be merged or needs further work.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<div class="topic">
<p class="topic-title first">Example</p>
<p>Here is a sample comment for a PR that is not yet ready for merge:</p>
<div class="highlight-text notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre>1
2
3
4
5</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span>Thank you @weaverryan for working on this! It seems that your test
cases don&#39;t cover the cases when the counter is zero or smaller.
Could you please add some tests for that?

Status: Needs Work
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>