<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Profiler Configuration Reference (WebProfilerBundle)</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../_static/rtd_custom.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="profiler-configuration-reference-webprofilerbundle">
<span id="index-0"></span><h1>Profiler Configuration Reference (WebProfilerBundle)</h1>
<p>The WebProfilerBundle is a <strong>development tool</strong> that provides detailed technical
information about each request execution and displays it in both the web debug
toolbar and the <a class="reference internal" href="../../profiler.xhtml"><span class="doc">profiler</span></a>. All these options are configured
under the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">web_profiler</span></code> key in your application configuration.</p>
<div class="highlight-terminal notranslate"><table class="highlighttable"><tr><td class="linenos"><div class="linenodiv"><pre>1
2
3
4
5</pre></div></td><td class="code"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="c1"># displays the default config values defined by Symfony</span>
<span class="gp">$</span> php bin/console config:dump-reference web_profiler

<span class="c1"># displays the actual config values used by your application</span>
<span class="gp">$</span> php bin/console debug:config web_profiler
</pre></div>
</td></tr></table></div>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="admonition-title">Note</p>
<p>When using XML, you must use the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">http://symfony.com/schema/dic/webprofiler</span></code>
namespace and the related XSD schema is available at:
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">https://symfony.com/schema/dic/webprofiler/webprofiler-1.0.xsd</span></code></p>
</div>
<div class="admonition caution">
<p class="admonition-title">Caution</p>
<p>The web debug toolbar is not available for responses of type <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">StreamedResponse</span></code>.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="configuration">
<h2>Configuration</h2>
<ul class="list-config-options simple">
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#excluded-ajax-paths">excluded_ajax_paths</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#intercept-redirects">intercept_redirects</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#toolbar">toolbar</a></p></li>
</ul>
<div class="section" id="excluded-ajax-paths">
<h3>excluded_ajax_paths</h3>
<p><strong>type</strong>: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">string</span></code> <strong>default</strong>: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">'^/((index|app(_[\w]+)?)\.php/)?_wdt'</span></code></p>
<p>When the toolbar logs AJAX requests, it matches their URLs against this regular
expression. If the URL matches, the request is not displayed in the toolbar. This
is useful when the application makes lots of AJAX requests, or if they are heavy
and you want to exclude some of them.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="intercept-redirects">
<span id="id1"></span><h3>intercept_redirects</h3>
<p><strong>type</strong>: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">boolean</span></code> <strong>default</strong>: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">false</span></code></p>
<p>If a redirect occurs during an HTTP response, the browser follows it automatically
and you won’t see the toolbar or the profiler of the original URL, only the
redirected URL.</p>
<p>When setting this option to <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">true</span></code>, the browser <em>stops</em> before making any
redirection and shows you the URL which is going to redirect to, its toolbar,
and its profiler. Once you’ve inspected the toolbar/profiler data, you can click
on the given link to perform the redirect.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="toolbar">
<h3>toolbar</h3>
<p><strong>type</strong>: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">boolean</span></code> <strong>default</strong>: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">false</span></code></p>
<p>It enables and disables the toolbar entirely. Usually you set this to <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">true</span></code>
in the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">dev</span></code> and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">test</span></code> environments and to <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">false</span></code> in the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">prod</span></code>
environment.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>